http://www.memphis.edu/fedex/drones/biographies2016.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			FedEx Institute of Technology
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                        
                           			
                           
                           
                           
                           	
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Research Clusters
                        Events
                        Our Team
                     
                     
                        
                           Research Clusters
                           
                              
                                 
                                 DRONES Research 2016
                                 DRONES Cluster Research Workshop
                                 Upcoming Events
                                 Research Fellows
                                 Contact the Cluster
                                 Commercial Drone Expo
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	FedEx Institute
                              	
                        
                              	Research Clusters
                              	
                        Researcher Biographies
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     DRONES Research Fellow Biographies
                     
                     Dr. Mohammed Yeasin
                     
                     Dr. Yeasin is an Associate Professor and a Data Scientist. He is the recipient of
                        National Science Foundation (NSF) Career Grant, Senior Member of the IEEE and Associate
                        Editor of two peer reviewed Journals (BMC Bioinformatics and PRML). He is practicing
                        machine learning for 15 years in the field of Bioinformatics, Biomedical Engineering,
                        Computer Vision, Cognitive Engineering, Human Computer Interaction and Assistive Technology.
                        He is leading a group of enthusiastic students to conduct cutting edge research in
                        collaboration with partners from the academia, industry, and community at large. He
                        is the leader of Blind Ambition – an interdisciplinary research and outreach effort
                        pioneering assistive solutions for people who are blind. He introduced the notion
                        of assistive thinking – a seamless blend of participatory design, system thinking
                        and design thinking to develop technology solutions. He has 23 years of academic experience
                        and authored/co-authored over 125 peer reviewed technical papers. He is committed
                        to provide quality educational experiences while gaining perspective through research,
                        and engaged scholarship. He has proven record of academic excellence and established
                        a successful research program to: (i) publish original works in peer reviewed journals
                        and conferences, (ii) recruit, train and retain graduate students and also minority
                        students, (iii) identify and advance cutting edge research, (iv) integrate research
                        with the classroom teaching to increase his effectiveness as an educator, and (v)
                        create a culture of research. He has been involved with many technological innovations
                        (for example, ARIANA, Emo-Assist, Expression, i-FEPS, O-MAP, i-TOBI/i-CBE etc.). He
                        pioneered the concept of co-analysis of signals and sense for modeling emotions, behavioral
                        expressions, epistemic state of mind, gestures and consumer demographics. He strives
                        to find intuitive explanation of complex concepts to further innovation. He is an
                        expert and also an enthusiast of asking relevant questions, connecting ideas and is
                        a life long learner. He has extensive knowledge in video analysis and big data analytics.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Euntae "Ted" Lee
                     
                     Euntae "Ted" Lee received his Ph.D. in Management Information Systems from University
                        of Nebraska and MS in Computer Science from The Pennsylvania State University. His
                        teaching interests include database systems management, data communications systems
                        and networking, data security and Information assurance, and Business Intelligence.
                        His primary research interests are knowledge engineering and management, business
                        rule managements systems, database systems, business intelligence/analytics, software
                        testing, and strategic use of organizational information systems. Dr. Lee's work has
                        been published in such journals as IEEE Software, Journal of Information Technology
                        Management, Expert Systems in Applications, The Communications of the ACM, and Journal
                        of Computer Information Systems.
                     
                     
                     Dr. John I. Hochstein
                     
                     John I. Hochstein, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, has been on the faculty of
                        the mechanical engineering department at the University of Memphis since 1991 and
                        served as department chair from 1996-2014. Working as an engineer in non-academic
                        positions, he contributed to the design of the Ohio-Class submarines at the Electric
                        Boat Division of General Dynamics and to the design of the Clinch River Breeder Reactor
                        while an engineer at the Babcock & Wilcox Company. The focus of his doctoral studies
                        was computational modeling of spacecraft cryogenic propellant management systems and
                        he has remained involved with NASA research on this topic since that time. Dr. Hochstein
                        is an Associate Fellow of AIAA and has served on the Microgravity Space Processes
                        Technical Committee since 1986. He joined ASME as an undergraduate student and served
                        for 4 years on the K20 Computational Heat Transfer Committee. He has twice been a
                        NASA Summer Faculty Fellow for two consecutive summers: once at the NASA Lewis (now
                        Glenn) Research Center, and once at the NASA Marshal Spaceflight Center. Dr. Hochstein
                        is a co-author of two textbooks widely adopted for use with introductory fluid mechanics
                        courses. His current primary research interests are the capture of hydrokinetic energy
                        to produce electricity, increasing the effectiveness and reliability of control of
                        unmanned vehicles, and the use of hydrophobic materials to manipulate fluids in a
                        reduced gravity environment.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Robert Kozma
                     
                     Robert Kozma (IEEE Fellow, INNS Fellow) is Professor of Mathematics and Director,
                        Center for Large-Scale Integrated Optimization and Networks, University of Memphis,
                        TN, USA. He is the recipient of a number of awards, including the 2012 INNS Gabor
                        Award by International Neural Network Society, and the University of Memphis Alumni
                        Association Distinguished Research Award (2010) and CAS Distinguished Research Award
                        (2009). Dr. Kozma has Ph.D. is in Applied Physics (The Netherlands); MSc. in Mathematics
                        (Hungary), and another M.Sc. in Physical Engineering (Russia). Previous appointments
                        include University of California at Berkeley; Otago University, New Zealand; Tohoku
                        University, Japan, Delft University of technology, The Netherlands; and Hungarian
                        Academy of Sciences, Hungary. He had visiting positions at Sarnoff Co., Princeton,
                        NJ; JPL Robotics Lab, Pasadena; AFRL Sensors Directorate, HAFB & WPAFB; and Lawrence
                        Berkeley Lab. His research includes robust decision support for large-scale networks,
                        intentional robotics, autonomous robot navigation and control, neurodynamics, brain-computer
                        interfaces. His research received funding over $5M by agencies including DARPA/DPO
                        Physical Intelligence; NSF/CRCNS; NASA/JPL Robotics Program; NASA Revolutionary Computing
                        Program; AFOSR/Mathematics & Cognition Program; Air Force Research Laboratory; and
                        the National Research Council. He is author of over 250 referred papers, and 7 book
                        volumes.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Kevin Berisso
                     
                     Kevin has over 15 years of experience in the AIDC industry, starting as a project
                        engineer at a custom warehouse management software company. He is currently the director
                        of the AIDC Lab at Ohio University, where he is involved in bar code and RFID research
                        as well as teaching both an AIDC class, a RFID class and computer programming class.
                     
                     
                     In addition to his educational duties, Kevin has developed numerous software packages
                        - both off the shelf solutions and customs applications. He has also worked as a manufacturing
                        engineer at Delphi Automotive, providing for a well rounded understanding of both
                        the business side AND the production side of many applications.
                     
                     
                     Kevin is an active member of the AIM Global Technical Symbology Committee (TSC), the
                        AIM Internet of Things committee, participates in the GS1 BCID Technical Group and
                        received the 2012 Ted Williams Award from AIM Global which is "presented annually
                        to a professor or student in recognition of innovative and exceptional contributions
                        that can further the growth of the industry through their work as a teacher, researcher
                        and entrepreneur."
                     
                     
                     Mr. Darrin Devault
                     
                     Darrin Devault serves as instructor/coordinator of the University of Memphis online
                        journalism degree program. In addition to teaching college journalism courses since
                        1991, he has extensive professional experience as a newspaper reporter and photographer, public
                        relations and marketing director, and digital media content developer. Previous career
                        stops include the Memphis City Schools, Northwest Mississippi Community College, and
                        the University of Tennessee at Knoxville, where he directed a nationally-recognized
                        marketing department and the Smoky Mountain Field School.
                     
                     
                     Devault is a member of the Public Relations Society of America (PRSA), PRSA Educators
                        Academy, and the Professional Society of Drone Journalists. He has received several
                        awards or his academic advising, ncluding the 2014 Dean's Faculty Advisor Award in
                        the College of Communication and Fine Arts and the 2014 Dr. William E. Porter Advisor of the Year Award for his service to and support of registered student organizations.
                     
                     
                     An entrepreneur at heart, Devault is the founding faculty adviser of Meeman 901 Strategies,
                        a student-run PR and creative firm housed in the U of M Crews Center for Entrepreneurship.
                        Devault also is co-founder of The Devault-Graves Agency, LLC, a Memphis-based independent
                        book publisher, and author of Graceland Too Revisited, a photography book that documents
                        a former roadside attraction in Holly Springs, Miss.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Eddie Jacobs
                     
                     Eddie L. Jacobs holds a B.S.E.E. (1986) and M.S.E.E. (1988) degree from the University
                        of Arkansas, and a D.Sc. degree in Electro-physics from the George Washington University
                        (2001). Dr. Jacobs is a licensed professional engineer in the state of Tennessee.
                        Dr. Jacobs began teaching in 2006 after a 17 year career as a US Department of Defense
                        researcher. He currently serves as the Undergraduate Coordinator for the Electrical
                        and Computer Engineering Department of the University of Memphis. He is actively involved
                        in curriculum development and in efforts to form the professional identity of students.
                        He serves as the faculty sponsor for IEEE-HKN honor society and a faculty advisor
                        for IEEE. He provides numerous research experiences for undergraduates, primarily
                        in the fields of optics and imaging which are his major areas of research. Dr. Jacobs
                        is fellow of SPIE and a senior member of IEEE.
                     
                     
                      Dr. Ebrahim Asadi
                     
                     Dr. Ebrahim Asadi joined the Department of Mechanical Engineering at University of
                        Memphis at August 2015 as Assistant Professor after a three-year Post-Doctoral study
                        at the Department of Materials Science & Engineering of Missouri University of Science
                        & Technology. In University of Memphis, he is the PI and founder for Materials and
                        Manufacturing Computational Research Laboratory (M2CRL). Dr. Asadi also held Visiting
                        Assistant Professor position at School of Engineering and Technology of Central Michigan
                        University for spring and fall of 2012 as well as Visiting Scholar position at Center
                        for Advanced Vehicular Systems (CAVS) for summer of 2012. He has published more than
                        twenty peer reviewed journal articles and presented various talks in international
                        conferences and universities. He has research experiences on computational modeling
                        of materials from nano to macro scales including Molecular Dynamics, Phase-Field Crystals,
                        Phase-Field Model, Fracture Mechanics, and Mechanics of Shell and plates. Most of
                        Dr. Asadi's recent research has been devoted to modeling crystalline materials at
                        during high temperature material processing. Currently, he is interested in predicting
                        microstructural evolution and mechanical properties of crystalline materials during
                        additive manufacturing processes to provide necessary on-the-fly measurements to optimize
                        these processes to improve the quality and repeatability of products.
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Research Clusters
                        
                           
                              
                              DRONES Research 2016
                              DRONES Cluster Research Workshop
                              Upcoming Events
                              Research Fellows
                              Contact the Cluster
                              Commercial Drone Expo
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Research
                              World-class researchers addressing critical emerging technology challenges
                           
                           
                              Technology Transfer
                              The home of University of Memphis intellectual property
                           
                           
                              Corporate Engagement
                              Collaboration leads to innovation
                           
                           
                              Newsroom
                              Catch up on what the Institute has been doing. 
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 8/31/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/fedex/drones/biographies2016.php
