http://www.memphis.edu/fedex/biologistics/research2016.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			FedEx Institute of Technology
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                        
                           			
                           
                           
                           
                           	
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Research Clusters
                        Events
                        Our Team
                     
                     
                        
                           Research Clusters
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Biologistics Research 2016
                                 Upcoming Events
                                 Research Fellows
                                 Contact the Cluster
                                 Dining with a Researcher Lunch
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	FedEx Institute
                              	
                        
                              	Research Clusters
                              	
                        Research projects
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Alternative Biologistics for Pharmaceutical Products: 3D-Printed Tablets and Pills
                     
                     PI: Dr. Ebrahim Asadi, Mechanical Engineering, Herff College of Engineering Co-PI: Dr. Sabya Mishra, Civil Engineering, Herff College of Engineering
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Biologistics of Lung Cancer Screening and Management Using Field Effect of Carcinogenesis
                        and a Novel Biophotonics Technique
                     
                     
                     PI: Dr. Prabhakar Pradhan, Physics & Materials Science, College of Arts & Sciences
                     
                     According to the University of Memphis Biologistics Research Cluster, "biologistics
                        is the management of the safe flow of high value, temperature sensitive and time-critical
                        biological materials as they are delivered for patient care, analyzed for diagnostic
                        purposes, processed to higher value products or stored to meet physical and data archival
                        needs." In that context, the biologistics of early cancer detection and management
                        is a preeminent challenge in modern medicine. In response, researchers are striving
                        to understand biological structures and processes at the nanoscale, in particular
                        the strong correlation between changes in intracellular nanoarchitecture related to
                        basic cellular materials, such as DNA, RNA, lipids, and proteins, and the earliest
                        stages of progressive carcinogenesis. Our group has recently developed an optical
                        experimental technique based on a key principle of physics: mesoscopic light transport.
                        This technique, termed partial wave spectroscopy, or PWS, is capable of detecting,
                        for the first time, nanoscale alterations in a cell during early cancer progression.
                        Preliminary results show that we can detect signs of ultra-early carcinogenesis in
                        lung, colon, pancreas, esophagus and ovary cells by fast optical imaging. Moreover,
                        we can quantify these nanoscale alterations, using an algorithm described later in
                        this proposal. Importantly, based on the field effect of carcinogenesis, we can detect
                        cancer from an easily accessible surrogate, far from the actual cancer site, but on
                        the same epithelial track. For example, we were able to detect lung cancer from buccal
                        cells, colon cancer from rectal cells, and ovarian cancer from cervical cells. The PWS optical technique is cost-effective and can be used for fast population-based
                        mass screening of several cancers. Important to this proposal, it has shown sensitivity
                        and specificity of ~80% for field effect detection from their corresponding surrogate
                        sites. However, for practical and optimal use, we require ultra-sensitivity of the
                        technique, ~99% sensitivity and specificity, to absolutely meet biologistics requirements
                        for early cancer screening and management for a large population. To accomplish this,
                        we propose further engineering to modify/improve the present PWS optical system to
                        enhance light signals scattered from nanoscale alterations by using a thin metallic
                        cavity incorporated into the present PWS technology. Using this optimized (enhanced)
                        PWS (EPWS) platform, we will be well positioned to concentrate on the biologistics
                        of early lung cancer detection and management. Lung cancer has one of the highest
                        mortality rates in the U.S., justifying the urgency of this screening technology.
                        Our research objectives are the following: Objective 1: Develop enhanced partial wave spectroscopy (EPWS) instrumentation for
                        the fast screening of early lung cancer: (i) design and incorporate a semi-transparent
                        metallic cavity as a biological cell holder into the present PWS system and characterize
                        this cavity-induced partial wave signal enhancement from nanoscale spatial refractive
                        index fluctuations in the cell; (ii) optimize cavity, cell, and staining parameters
                        for fast detection and screening. Objective 2: Validate detection of lung cancer from buccal/cheek cells with high sensitivity
                        and specificity to meet biologistics requirements for early cancer screening and cancer
                        management: As a pilot study, we will use EPWS to detect lung cancer in human subjects
                        (n=50 lung cancer and n=100 normal) by collecting cells from (i) affected areas in
                        lung biopsy (for cancer confirmation) and (ii) cheek /buccal cells, far from the affected areas, to test our method against the "field
                        effect" of carcinogenesis.
                     
                     
                     Assessment of Biologistics Research and Practices for the Purposes of Proposing a
                        New Cutting-Edge Research Agenda
                     
                     
                     PI: Dr. Mehdi Amini, Marketing & Supply Chain Management, Fogelman College of Business
                        & Economics Co-PI: Dr. Mihalis Golias, Civil Engineering, Herff College of Engineering
                     
                     
                     Post-Disaster Management of Freight Transportation Networks
                     
                     PI: Dr. Charles Camp, Civil Engineering, Herff College of Engineering Co-PIs: Dr. Shahram Pezeshk, Civil Engineering, Herff College of Engineering & and
                        Dr. Chris Cramer, Center for Earthquake Research Information (CERI), Herff College
                        of Engineering
                     
                     
                     Biologistics Security: Implications for Market Growth, Transportation and Logistics
                     
                     PI: Dr. Haskel D. Harrison, Sparks Bureau of Business & Economic Research, Fogelman
                        College of Business & Economics Co-PI: Dan Pallme, Intermodal Freight Transportation Institute, Herff College of Engineering
                     
                     
                     The purpose of this proposal is two-fold—
                     
                     1. To present an overview of the current security issues associated with the shipment
                        of life sciences products, dual-purpose elements, vaccines, pathogens, "gain of function"
                        substance sharing among research laboratories, and high value pharmaceuticals. Product
                        security risks associated with theft, terrorism and mishandling of biological shipments
                        is on the rise. The cost of shipping is directly associated with the increase in product
                        linked liability risk and the reputational risks for companies along the supply chain.
                        The increasing problem of theft, manipulation and resale of biological products is
                        a global issue associated with controlling security at every stage of the supply chain. 2. To develop an organization and operation plan for a "Center for Biologistic Product
                        Protection and Security Research" –-a research, education and training partnership
                        between the Intermodal Freight Transportation Institute and the Sparks Bureau of Business
                        and Economic Research.
                     
                     
                     Big Data Analytics Meets the Internet of Things: A Paradigm Shift in Biologistics
                     
                     PI: Dr. Mohammed Yeasin, Electrical Engineering, Herff College of Engineering Co-PI: Dr. Sabya Mishra, Civil Engineering, Herff College of Engineering
                     
                     
                     The demand of temperature and time sensitive shipping service are growing exponentially.
                        The technology has clearly not kept pace with the demand and realities in the ground.
                        For example, a report compiled by Pharma presented in the 3rd biologistics conference
                        2015, identifies that "inefficiencies in the process lead to seven out of ten trials
                        being delayed or cancelled, at a cost of $1.1 million in daily prescription revenues."
                        Instead of investing to develop an in-house supply chain, industry trend is to rely
                        on shipment services such as FedEx, UPS, and others. FedEx has been serving its users
                        through a number of X-services. For example, FedEx custom critical provides temperature
                        control, records humidity, light exposure, etc. throughout the shipping. Healthcare
                        Shared Network – Cold Chain LTL transportation, reports the temperature every half
                        an hour. FedEx Temperature control solution, uses liquid nitrogen to keep constant
                        temperature for 10 days. FedEx Priority Alert for time critical and temperature sensitive
                        packaging offers Provides temperature monitoring., re-icing such as dry ice replenishment
                        or gel pack conditioning and also makes effort to deliver shipment on time. The SenseAware
                        technology which logs all the data in the shipment package. This generates a big data
                        that can be used to check if the package encountered any unusual condition.
                     
                     
                     Advanced Aerogel Packaging Solutions for Cold-Chain Biologics Materials Handling
                     
                     PI: Dr. Firouzeh Sabri, Physics & Materials Science, College of Arts & Sciences Co-PI: Dr. Jeffrey Marchetta, Mechanical Engineering, Herff College of Engineering
                     
                     
                     Long distance transportation of biologistics is currently limited due to the fact
                        that most containers have a limited time that temperatures inside the containers can
                        be kept steady and at the required low temperature. In some cases expensive and heavy
                        data loggers are used that need to be returned to the vendor upon delivery of the
                        biologistics product. Here, we propose the design, construction, and testing of a
                        light-weight aerogel-based containment package that can be utilized for the safe transportation
                        of temperature sensitive biologics, under sterile environment. Aerogels are currently
                        known as the best insulating material and have demonstrated superior thermal insulating
                        capability compared to materials routinely used in the shipping and storage industry.
                        Its light-weight and biologically-friendly nature makes this material an excellent
                        choice for long-distance transportation and containment of biologistics and the preliminary
                        data acquired in this work will serve as a platform for further growth and utilization/
                        incorporation of this material in packaging and transportation.
                     
                     
                     Smart Packaging Temperature Sensing for Biologistics
                     
                     PI: Dr. Firouzeh Sabri, Physics & Materials Science, College of Arts & Sciences Co-PI: Steve Allison
                     
                     
                     Engineering Novel Supercapacitor: Batteries for Biologistics
                     
                     PI: Dr. Sanjay Mishra, Physics & Materials Science, College of Arts & Sciences Co-PI: Dr. Jiangbiao Cui, Physics & Materials Science, College of Arts & Sciences
                     
                     
                     The proposed team project focuses on developing novel supercapacitor batteries for
                        futuristic energy applications related to Biologistic. The main thrust of the research
                        is to develop novel nanostructured based Supercapacitor for batteries which includes
                        (1) identification of potential materials, (2) development of novel nanostructures,
                        and (3) understanding of long term repeatability and stability of supercapacitor materials.
                        The energy dense supercapacitors will allow effective long distance transport (mobility
                        and controlled environment) of biological specimen and samples at appreciably low
                        cost. The long term implication is that proposed efforts will result in discovery
                        and engineering of marketable, energy dense, small carbon foot print, cheaper, material
                        for transportation and energy applications. The research efforts will be interwoven
                        with outreach activities including regular seminars, presentations at conferences,
                        and high school student participation in various aspects of the project via on-going
                        summer programs on campus.
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Research Clusters
                        
                           
                              
                              Biologistics Research 2016
                              Upcoming Events
                              Research Fellows
                              Contact the Cluster
                              Dining with a Researcher Lunch
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Research
                              World-class researchers addressing critical emerging technology challenges
                           
                           
                              Technology Transfer
                              The home of University of Memphis intellectual property
                           
                           
                              Corporate Engagement
                              Collaboration leads to innovation
                           
                           
                              Newsroom
                              Catch up on what the Institute has been doing. 
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 8/31/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/fedex/biologistics/research2016.php
