http://www.memphis.edu/lead/apply/courses-hiad.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			The Department of Leadership
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        HIAD
                        LDPS
                        Faculty
                        Our Graduates
                     
                     
                        
                           Apply Now!
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Application Process
                                 LDPS
                                       Coursework
                                       General Information
                                    
                                 
                                 HIAD
                                       
                                       Coursework
                                       
                                       General Information
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	LEAD
                              	
                        
                              	Apply 
                              	
                        HIAD Coursework
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Higher Education Studies
                     
                     coursework in higher and adult education (HIAD)
                     
                     Please be aware that course offerings are subject to change in accordance with student
                           enrollment and availability; some courses may be offered on alternating schedules
                           in accordance with the demands of multiple curricula within the Department.
                     
                     HIAD 7060 - Intrnshp Hi/Adult Ed (1-6) Work experiences in higher education institution or in adult education settings under
                        supervision of practicing professional and university supervisor. May be repeated
                        for maximum of 6 credits. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. Restricted to students
                        enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7170 - Community Educ Administration (3) Organizational aspects of community education programs, including administration and
                        suprevision of personnel and citizen-community participation in formulating, implementing,
                        and evaluating community education programs. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD,
                        LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7171 - Adult & Conti Educ Admin (3) Organization and administration of adult and continuing education, including adult
                        remedial, vocational-technical, community outreach programs; administrative methods
                        and materials appropriate to adult habits and needs; interpreting current legislation
                        and research relating to adult and continuing education programs; planning, implementing,
                        and evaluating strategies. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL
                        programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7172 - Curri Planning in Adu Basic Ed (3) Principles of curriculum building in application to adult basic education students. HIAD 7403 - Rsrch Hghr/Adult Educ (3) Current topics, research problems, new studies, and needed inquiries in higher and
                        adult education. PREREQUISITES: EDPR 7/8541, 7/8542, 8415, 1 additional methods course
                        approved by advisor. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs
                        or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7404 - Supervised Research (1-6) Collaborative research with faculty within the major to include planning, design,
                        management, analysis, and reporting of research. May be repeated for a maximum of
                        12 credit hours. PREREQUISITES: Minimum of 12 hours in major and permission of instructor.
                        Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission
                        of instructor. HIAD 7410 - Overview Higher Educ (3) (EDAS 7190-8190). Higher education in social and historical contexts; organization
                        and administration of colleges and universities. Restricted to students enrolled in
                        HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7411 - Community Colleges (3) (EDAS 7191-8191). History, philosophy, and changing mission of the community college;
                        focus on administration, faculty, staff, and students; curriculum and services; funding,
                        public relations, and the presidency. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS,
                        and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7415 - It Trends & Issues (3) Explores issues and trends in information technology for leaders of higher and adult
                        education, involving readings, discussion, and hands-on web research related to IT
                        planning and budget considerations, academic and administrative systems, management
                        of IT professionals, and IT-induced change in various segments of education. Restricted
                        to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7430 - The Professoriate (3) Faculties of U.S. colleges and universities, nature of their work in various types
                        of institutions, academic reward system, and programs for continuing professional
                        development. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by
                        permission of instructor. HIAD 7440 - Stdnt Prsnl Svc High Ed (3) (COUN 7613-8613). Activities, functions, relationships, and philosophy of student
                        personnel services; historical developments and current trends in student personnel
                        services in relation to changing concepts in higher education. Restricted to students
                        enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7441 - College Studnt/Culture (3) (COUN 7672-8672). College student characteristics and differing life patterns in institutional
                        perspective; variations in student and college cultures in types of institutions.
                        Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission
                        of instructor. HIAD 7442 - College Student Dev (3) (Same as COUN 7622-8622.) Comprehensive study of traditional and non-traditional college
                        students; emphasis on identification of development needs. Restricted to students
                        enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7443 - College Environments (3) (Same as COUN 7623-8623). Person-environment interaction theories, campus ecology,
                        impact of college environments on diverse student populations, and higher education
                        environmental assessment techniques. PREREQUISITE: HIAD 7442-8442. Restricted to students
                        enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7444 - Multiculturalism Coll Camp (3) Develops knowledge and skills necessary for leadership in diverse educational backgrounds.
                        Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission
                        of instructor. HIAD 7445 - Group Work in Stud Per (3) Information and experiential opportunities about working with groups for leaders in
                        diverse educational settings. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL
                        programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7450 - College/Unvsty Curric (3) (HIAD 7200-8200). Structure, development, implementation, and assessment of curriculum
                        in colleges and universities; historical and philosophical perspectives; major figures,
                        emerging trends, and contemporary issues. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD,
                        LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7452 - Developmental Educ (3) (HIAD 7204-8204). Developmental education programs in colleges and universities; focus
                        on policy, administration, and instruction. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD,
                        LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7510 - Overview Of Adult Educ (3) (HIAD 7250). Historical development of adult education; scope of field, including
                        non-formal, post-secondary education, and human resource development. Restricted to
                        students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7511 - Admin/Govt Comm College (3) Clinical examination of structure, governance, management, and institutional culture
                        in the context of accepted administrative practice in the contemporary community college.
                        Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission
                        of instructor. HIAD 7512 - Dev Grant Proposals/Ldrsp Prog (3) (HIAD 7256-8256). Adult leadership programs in various organizations, agencies, and
                        groups as primary, supplementary, or complementary function; community relations and
                        development in funding. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs
                        or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7530 - Continuing Prof Educ (3) Background and development of continuing education for professionals, including medicine,
                        law, social work, psychology, dentistry, and education as well as other fields; examination
                        of impetus and providers for such programs. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD,
                        LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7541 - Issues/Trends Tchg Adults (3) (HIAD 7201-8201). Teaching and learning in higher education and other educational
                        settings; analysis of who our learners are and teaching approaches designed for diverse
                        student populations. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs
                        or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7542 - Global/Compartv Issues Ldrshp (3) Cross-cultural and cross-national study of selected issues and problems in higher
                        and adult education; examines role of education in promoting social, economic, and
                        cultural change. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs
                        or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7543 - External Relations/Fundraising (3) Working with populations external to the organization, such as schools, organizations,
                        community agencies, governments, and the media. Also, principles of fundraising, alumni
                        development, and devlopment campaigns. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS,
                        and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8000 - Change Theory in Higher Educ (3) Focus on theories and techniques for helping higher education institutions to change.
                        Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission
                        of instructor. HIAD 8060 - Intrnshp Hi/Adult Ed (1-6) Work experiences in higher education institution or in adult education settings under
                        supervision of practicing professional and university supervisor. May be repeated
                        for maximum of 6 credits. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL
                        programs or by permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. HIAD 8170 - Community Educ Administration (3) Organizational aspects of community education programs, including administration and
                        suprevision of personnel and citizen-community participation in formulating, implementing,
                        and evaluating community education programs. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD,
                        LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8171 - Adult & Conti Educ Admin (3) Organization and administration of adult and continuing education, including adult
                        remedial, vocational-technical, community outreach programs; administrative methods
                        and materials appropriate to adult habits and needs; interpreting current legislation
                        and research relating to adult and continuing education programs; planning, implementing,
                        and evaluating strategies. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL
                        programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8172 - Curri Planning in Adu Basic Ed (3) Principles of curriculum building in application to adult basic education students.
                        Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission
                        of instructor. HIAD 8400 - Writing for Publication (3) Learn about journals, tailoring articles to journals, writing a research article,
                        working with editors and reviewers. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Restricted
                        to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8401 - Higher Educ Adminstratn (3) (EDAS 7192-8192). Role, function, organization, and administration of colleges and
                        universities; roles of presidents and other administrators; variations in academic
                        and student life in higher education; relationships with various constituencies; problems
                        of practice and power. PREREQUISITE: HIAD 7410, 8415, 8420, 8422, or equivalent. Restricted
                        to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8403 - Rsrch Hghr/Adult Educ (3) Current topics, research problems, new studies, and needed inquiries in higher and
                        adult education. PREREQUISITES: EDPR 7/8541, 7/8542, 8415, 1 additional methods course
                        approved by advisor. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs
                        or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8404 - Supervised Research (1-6) Collaborative research with faculty within the major to include planning, design,
                        management, analysis, and reporting of research. May be repeated for a maximum of
                        12 credit hours. PREREQUISITES: Minimum of 12 hours in major and permission of instructor.
                        Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission
                        of instructor. HIAD 8405 - Sem Higher/Adlt Educ (3) (HIAD 7258-8258). Culminating experience for doctoral students; examination of current
                        issues using cross-disciplinary perspectives derived from previous coursework. Restricted
                        to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8406 - Designing Research in HIAD (3) This course focuses on the theoretical, conceptual, and procedural knowledge underpinning
                        the designing of qualitative, quantitative, and mixed methods research in higher and
                        adult education. PREREQUISITES: LEAD 8001, HIAD 8412, EDPR 8560 (or EDPR 8561), EDPR
                        8541, EDPR 8542 or equivalent, or permission of the instructor. HIAD 8410 - Overview Higher Edu (3) (EDAS 7190-8190). Higher education in social and historical contexts; organization
                        and administration of colleges and universities. Restricted to students enrolled in
                        HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8411 - Community Colleges (3) (EDAS 7191-8191). History, philosophy, and changing mission of the community college;
                        focus on administration, faculty, staff, and students; curriculum and services; funding,
                        public relations, and the presidency. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS,
                        and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8412 - Hist/Policy Persp Hied (3) (EDFD 7002-8002). Historical development of higher education in the United States;
                        current higher education policy issues in relation to this development. Restricted
                        to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8415 - IT Trends & Issues (3) Explores issues and trends in information technology for leaders of higher and adult
                        education, involving readings, discussion, and hands-on web research related to IT
                        planning and budget considerations, academic and administrative systems, management
                        of IT professionals, and IT-induced change in various segments of education. Restricted
                        to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8420 - Legal/Ethical Issues in HIAD (3) (EDAS 8380). Legal principles and significant legal constraints relating to institutions
                        of higher education; emphasis on application of law to organizational structure, students,
                        personnel, programs, property, and finance; analysis of current legal issues. Restricted
                        to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8422 - Higher Educ Finance (3) (EDAS 8320). Financing of institutions in higher education; sources and methods of
                        securing funds; development of programs; procedures for budget development and analysis;
                        other financial and economic aspects of higher education administration; analysis
                        of current problems related to higher education finance. PREREQUISITES: EDPR 7/8541
                        and EDPR 7/8542. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs
                        or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8430 - The Professoriate (3) Faculties of U.S. colleges and universities, nature of their work in various types
                        of institutions, academic reward system, and programs for continuing professional
                        development. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by
                        permission of instructor. HIAD 8440 - Stdnt Prsnl Svc High Ed (3) (COUN 7613-8613). Activities, functions, relationships, and philosophy of student
                        personnel services; historical developments and current trends in student personnel
                        services in relation to changing concepts in higher education. Restricted to students
                        enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8441 - College Studnt/Culture (3) (COUN 7672-8672). College student characteristics and differing life patterns in institutional
                        perspective; variations in student and college cultures in types of institutions.
                        Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission
                        of instructor. HIAD 8442 - College Student Dev (3) (Same as COUN 7622-8622.) Comprehensive study of traditional and non-traditional college
                        students; emphasis on identification of development needs. Restricted to students
                        enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8443 - College Environments (3) (Same as COUN 7623-8623). Person-environment interaction theories, campus ecology,
                        impact of college environments on diverse student populations, and higher education
                        environmental assessment techniques. PREREQUISITE: HIAD 7442-8442. Restricted to students
                        enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8450 - College/Unvsty Curric (3) (HIAD 7200-8200). Structure, development, implementation, and assessment of curriculum
                        in colleges and universities; historical and philosophical perspectives; major figures,
                        emerging trends, and contemporary issues. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD,
                        LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8510 - Overview Of Adult Educ (3) (HIAD 7250). Historical development of adult education; scope of field, including
                        non-formal, post-secondary education, and human resource development. Restricted to
                        students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8511 - Admin/Govt Comm College (3) Clinical examination of structure, governance, management, and institutional culture
                        in the context of accepted administrative practice in the contemporary community college.
                        Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission
                        of instructor. HIAD 8512 - Dev Grant Proposals/Ldrsp Prog (3) (HIAD 7256-8256). Adult leadership programs in various organizations, agencies, and
                        groups as primary, supplementary, or complementary function; community relations and
                        development in funding. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs
                        or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8530 - Continuing Prof Educ (3) Background and development of continuing education for professionals, including medicine,
                        law, social work, psychology, dentistry, and education as well as other fields; examination
                        of impetus and providers for such programs. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD,
                        LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8541 - Issues/Trends Tchg Adults (3) (HIAD 7201-8201). Teaching and learning in higher education and other educational
                        settings; analysis of who our learners are and teaching approaches designed for diverse
                        student populations. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs
                        or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8542 - Global/Compartv Issues Ldrshp (3) Cross-cultural and cross-national study of selected issues and problems in higher
                        and adult education; examines role of education in promoting social, economic, and
                        cultural change. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs
                        or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8543 - External Relations/Fundraising (3) Working with populations external to the organization, such as schools, organizations,
                        community agencies, governments, and the medial. Also, principles of fundraising,
                        alumni development, and development campaigns. Restricted to students enrolled in
                        HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor.
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Apply Now!
                        
                           
                              
                              Application Process
                              LDPS
                                    Coursework
                                    General Information
                                 
                              
                              HIAD
                                    
                                    Coursework
                                    
                                    General Information
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply Now 
                              Start an application and view the Graduate Catalog
                           
                           
                              About Us
                              Learn more about the Department of Leadership and what we do
                           
                           
                              Need Help? Contact Us! 
                              Questions or comments? Get in touch with our support staff!
                           
                           
                              Online Resources 
                              A list of useful links, forms, and documents for current and prospective Leadership
                                 students 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/12/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/lead/apply/courses-hiad.php
