http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/vetedben/faq.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Registrar
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Register
                        Students
                        Veterans
                        Faculty & Staff
                        Forms
                     
                     
                        
                           Veterans Ed Benefits
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Veterans Ed Ben
                                       
                                       Benefits
                                       
                                       Responsibilities and Reminders
                                       
                                       Certification
                                       
                                       Resources
                                       
                                       FAQ
                                       
                                       Notice!
                                    
                                 
                                 Veterans Resource Center
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Registrar
                              	
                        
                              	Veterans
                              	
                        FAQ 
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     FAQ
                     
                     We know you have questions about your Veterans benefits. For that reason we have tried
                        to anticipate some as well as provide you with other resources.
                     
                     
                     The Basic Questions
                     
                     Which GI Bill® fits my needs?
                     
                     Go to our Programs & Benefits page for this information. (GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).
                        More information is available at the official U.S. government Web site at www.benefits.va.gov/gibill .)
                     
                     
                     How Do I apply for VA Educational Benefits?
                     
                     Go to our Programs & Benefits page for this information.
                     
                     
                     Can National Guard or Reserve Tuition Assistance be used in conjunction with my GI
                        Bill benefits?
                     
                     
                     Yes, however, depending on which GI Bill benefit you are claiming there may be an
                        issue with duplicating benefits between VA, DoD, or both.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        All Active Duty Service Members and Chapter 33 (Post 9/11) recipients- If you are
                           eligible to receive TA and GI Bill Benefits, you cannot claim GI Bill benefits for
                           a course that TA is already authorized to pay. The amount received from TA is deducted
                           from the net cost of Tuition and Fees submitted to the VA.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     How much credit can I expect to get for my military experience?
                     
                     Students who served 12 consecutive months on active duty may receive up to 6 semester
                        credit hours by submitting a copy of their DD-214 to the University of Memphis Admissions
                        office. In order to apply for credit for prior military training or education, submit
                        an official copy of your military transcript to the Admission Office, 201 Wilder Tower.
                     
                     
                     Will that credit count toward my degree program?
                     
                     You may check to see how credits apply towards your degree plan by consulting with
                        an academic advisor. Currently enrolled students may also check Umdegree by logging
                        into the MyMemphis portal and clicking on the “My Degree” tab. Most credits are applied
                        as elective credit.
                     
                     
                     How is my residency determined for paying in-state or out-of-state tuition?
                     
                     Residency requirements are processed through the Admissions Office. If you have questions
                        concerning these requirements, please contact Admissions (201 Wilder Tower; 901.678.2111;
                        admissions@memphis.edu ).
                     
                     
                     Can my GI Bill benefits be transferred to my dependents?
                     
                     The transferability option is available under the Post-9/11 GI Bill. Service members
                        may transfer unused benefits to their spouses or dependent children. For more specific
                        information on how to transfer benefits, refer to the GI Bill website . Click on “Post 9/11 & Other Programs” tab. From the drop-down options, click “The
                        Post 9/11 GI Bill.” From this transferability page, click on Transfer of Post-9/11 GI-Bill Benefits to Dependents (TEB) located on the left hand side.
                     
                     
                     How do I transfer my GI Bill benefits from another institution to U of M?
                     
                     If you are a Veteran or CH 33 dependent, complete VA form 22-1995. DEA dependents
                        (CH 35) will complete 22-5495 application located on the GI Bill website :
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Click “Apply for Benefits”
                        
                        Click “Launch VONAPP”
                        
                        Select the appropriate application either 22-1995 or 22-5495 from the drop-down menu
                           and complete.
                        
                        
                        Once completed, click submit to electronically send your application to the Department
                           of Veterans Affairs Regional Office for processing.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Who can help me to decide on a major?
                     
                     If you are currently enrolled contact your academic advisor for help deciding on a
                        major. If you need an advisor, contact Academic Counseling Center (212 Wilder Tower;
                        901.678.2065) to schedule an appointment.
                     
                     
                     How can I fulfill the admission requirement for the ACT or SAT?
                     
                     Please contact Admissions (201 Wilder Tower; 901.678.2111; admissions@memphis.edu ) for information regarding ACT or SAT requirements.
                     
                     
                     What is a VA Deferment? How do I request a VA Deferment?
                     
                     A VA Deferment is a request made by service members, veterans, and dependents of veterans
                        who are eligible for and receiving VA educational assistance benefits to defer payment
                        of Tuition and fees until the end of the term. You make a request for VA Deferment
                        letter through the Veterans Educational Benefits & Certification Office (003 Wilder
                        Tower) after you register for classes and complete a Veterans Request for Certification
                        form.
                     
                     
                     What is Advance Pay? How do I apply?
                     
                     Advance pay is available for those receiving benefits under GI Bill Educational programs
                        other than CH 33 Post 9/11. Veterans and dependents who are registered for half-time
                        or more credit hours may apply for Advance pay. Contact the Veterans Educational Benefits
                        & Certification Office for eligibility requirements and the Advance pay application.
                     
                     
                     Other FAQ
                     
                     For all of these FAQ, contact Veterans Educational Benefits & Certification (003 Wilder
                        Tower; 901.678.2996) for more information, especially with regard to eligibility requirements
                        and UofM Veterans forms .
                     
                     
                     Why do I have to re-certify every semester?
                     
                     The VA gives universities the option of certifying either by term or for the whole
                        year. We have chosen to certify by term primarily because we have no guarantee that
                        a student will re-enroll in the subsequent term. If we certified by year, we would
                        run the risk of overpaying someone who did not enroll for the second term.
                     
                     
                     How soon should I submit my VA paperwork for an upcoming term?
                     
                     After you register for classes, you may complete the online UofM Veterans Request
                        for Certification. (A valid UofM Username and Passwaord are required for login.) You
                        must complete the Request for Certification for each semester for which you register
                        and wish to claim benefits.
                     
                     
                     How does the VA determine which courses I'll receive VA pay for?
                     
                     The VA will pay only for those courses required for your specific degree. It will
                        pay for elective credit provided that you have not already exceeded the number of
                        elective hours allowed for graduation with your degree. You can use your VA benefits
                        during any academic term, including Summer, so long as you have remaining entitlement. 
                     
                     
                     What happens if I fail the courses I am taking with my VA benefits?
                     
                     The VA will not certify a course you have already successfully completed, regardless
                        of whether or not you received VA Educational Benefits for the earlier attempt.
                     
                     
                     However, if your program requires a higher grade in a course than you achieved, you
                        may repeat that course in order to meet graduation requirements.
                     
                     
                     For example, if your BS in Biology program requires a "B" or better in Biology 2010,
                        then you may repeat that course if you scored lower than a "B"; your VA benefits will
                        cover the repeat.
                     
                     
                     Whom do I notify about a change-of-address if I am using VA benefits?
                     
                     You must notify the VA of your change of address by calling 1-888-GIBILL-1 (1-888-442-4551).
                        Also, you should update your address with the University as well.
                     
                     
                     You can do this online through the myMemphis portal: click on the "Student" tab and
                        then on "Update Addresses and Phones" link (in the "Personal Information" channel).
                     
                     
                     Do I have to enroll as a full-time student to use my VA benefits?
                     
                     No. You may enroll as a part-time student and still use your VA educational benefits.
                        The VA offers reduced rates for those who do not want to study full-time.
                     
                     
                     Students who attend on less than a half-time basis are paid by the VA based on the
                        amount of tuition and fees for the course.
                     
                     
                     Students who enroll for less than half-time and who receive Tuition Assistance (TA)
                        from the Reserves or Guard cannot receive MGIB-SR benefits for the same semester.
                     
                     
                     At UofM full-time status is:
                     
                     
                        
                        12 hours for undergraduate students
                        
                        9 hours for graduate students
                        
                     
                     
                     For more information, you may e-mail your questions to the Veterans Administration
                        by using the "Submit a Question" button on the VA website. You may also call the VA
                        toll-free number, 1-888-GIBILL-1 (1-888-442-4551), to speak with a veterans benefit
                        representative.
                     
                     
                     What do I need to do to receive credit for prior military training/education?
                     
                     Submit or have the following sent to the UM's Admissions Office for evaluation:
                     
                     
                        
                        a copy of your "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty" (DD-214)
                        
                        an official transcript from your military service branch for military schools, correspondence
                           courses, and occupations Admissions Office 101 Wilder Tower University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152-3520
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Transcripts for Military Personnel
                     
                     
                        
                        Joint Services Transcript (Army, Coast Guard, Marines, and Navy)
                        
                        
                        The Community College of the Air Force (CCAF)
                        
                        DSST / CLEP Examinations
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Veterans Ed Benefits
                        
                           
                              
                              Veterans Ed Ben
                                    
                                    Benefits
                                    
                                    Responsibilities and Reminders
                                    
                                    Certification
                                    
                                    Resources
                                    
                                    FAQ
                                    
                                    Notice!
                                 
                              
                              Veterans Resource Center
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Calendars
                              Academic calendars, dates/deadlines, exams.
                           
                           
                              Notice!
                              Check for alerts and reminders.
                           
                           
                              Contact Us 
                               Have questions? Need assistance or information?
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/21/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/vetedben/faq.php
