http://www.memphis.edu/space/process.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   		
   	
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Space Planning and Utilization
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Space Planning Process
                        Space Policy Council
                        Building Info
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Space Planning and Utilization
                              	
                        Space Planning Process
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Space Planning Process
                     
                     Policies
                     
                     Issued: September 15, 2003 Responsible Executive Officer: Provost Responsible Office: Space Planning and Utilization
                     
                     
                     Policy Statement
                     
                     All space under University control is to be assigned and used for the highest priority
                        needs of the University as a whole. Departments and activities may be assigned space
                        for use, but all space belongs to the University, not to a particular college, school,
                        department, or activity and is subject to reassignment.
                     
                     
                     The University will maintain an accurate and complete record of space assignments
                        and utilization for internal management and external reports.
                     
                     
                     The President will appoint a Space Policy Council, through the Office of the Provost,
                        to address changing programmatic space needs, to develop effective methods to analyze
                        and evaluate space requests, and to allocate facility resources. The President will
                        appoint members on an annual basis and appoint the chair and vice chair from among
                        the voting members.
                     
                     
                     Purpose
                     
                     To establish procedures and processes for planning, assignment, reassignment, and
                        reporting space usage.
                     
                     
                     Procedures
                     
                     Assignment and Reassignment of Space 1. Requests for the assignment of new or additional space will be submitted to Space
                        Planning and Utilization by the requesting department. The Request for Space Change Form will be used to make this request.
                     
                     
                     2. Space Planning and Utilization will review the request, secure additional information
                        to assist in evaluating it, discuss it with appropriate officials, and provide other
                        information and analysis related to the request. Space Planning and Utilization may
                        initiate alternate reassignment recommendations. When a request involves physical
                        modifications, a copy will be provided to Campus Planning and Design and Physical
                        Plant for review.
                     
                     
                     3. Requests and Space Planning and Utilization evaluations will be submitted to the
                        Space Policy Council for their review and determination.
                     
                     
                     4. Any official or group in the process may request additional information or consideration
                        of other alternatives.
                     
                     
                     Physical Facilities Inventory Space Planning and Utilization will be responsible for the annual submission of the
                        Physical Facilities Inventory as requested by the Tennessee Higher Education Commission
                        through the Tennessee Board of Regents. Information related to the Physical Facilities
                        Inventory is to be kept current and accurate as it is directly related to the University
                        appropriations for facility improvements and new construction.
                     
                     
                     Scheduling Of Classes Classrooms designated as general purpose are centrally scheduled by the Office of
                        the Registrar. Classrooms and class laboratories designated as departmental controlled
                        are scheduled by the departments. Changes in designation require approval of the dean(s)
                        responsible for the room(s) and the provost. Change of classroom use to another use
                        requires approval as described above in Assignment and Reassignment of Space. An impact
                        report from the Registrar’s Office should be included with any requests for changes
                        in a classroom usage or classroom designation.
                     
                     
                     Space Policy Council 1. The President will appoint members to the Space Policy Council on an annual basis.
                     
                     
                     2. The Council will be comprised of the following members:
                     
                     One representative from each of the following offices: (1) President; (2) Provost;
                        (3) Business and Finance; (4) Advancement and Marketing; (5) Information Technology;
                        (6) Student Affairs; (7) Research; (8) Registrar
                     
                     
                     Four deans, including the dean of Arts and Sciences
                     
                     One representative from the Student Government Association
                     
                     Chair and co-chair of the Facilities and Services Committee
                     
                     One representative from the Faculty Senate
                     
                     One representative from the Staff Senate
                     
                     One representative from Public Safety (ex-officio, non-voting)
                     
                     Director for Space Planning and Utilization (ex-officio, non-voting)
                     
                     Assistant Vice President Campus Planning & Design (ex-officio, non-voting)
                     
                     Assistant Vice President Physical Plant (ex-officio, non-voting)
                     
                     Space Analyst for Space Planning and Utilization (recording secretary, ex-officio,
                        non-voting)
                     
                     
                     3. The chair and vice chair are to be appointed by the President from among the voting
                        members.
                     
                     
                     4. The Space Policy Council is a decision-making body regarding space issues. It will
                        provide a forum for the discussion and approval of individual space requests, campus-wide
                        space plans, plans for new space, space utilization reports, policies and procedures
                        regulating the use of facilities, and other critical space planning issues that require
                        policy level deliberation. Some decisions are of such magnitude that deliberation
                        and support from the executive officers of the University are needed for a high probability
                        of successful implementation. In such circumstances, the Council may be called upon
                        to provide an analysis of options and a recommendation for consideration.
                     
                     
                     5. The Council will not be responsible for event scheduling or assignment of space
                        for events.
                     
                     
                     6. The Council shall provide an annual activity report to the executive officers.
                     
                     The Council will advise on the full range of policies and procedures affecting space
                        planning, management and reporting, and will make recommendations on specific space
                        assignment and reassignments.
                     
                     
                     Space Standards, Analysis and Evaluation 1. Space Planning and Utilization will develop appropriate standards for space assignment
                        and utilization following those established by the Tennessee Higher Education Commission.
                     
                     
                     2. Space Planning and Utilization will perform various analyses and evaluations.
                     
                     3. The Space Policy Council may provide recommendations on the various standards,
                        analyses, and evaluations.
                     
                     
                     Reporting Changes in Use or Assignment of Space Every department or activity with assigned space will report any change in the assignment
                        or functional use of space. The Request for Space Change Form is to be used for this purpose. Changes in assignment or utilization will not be
                        accomplished until approval is received. After approval is received, Space Planning
                        and Utilization will transmit the change in assignment or usage to the data stewards
                        of the systems with room data (e.g., Archibus, Resources 25, Student Information System).
                     
                     
                     A Request for Space Change Form should be submitted in the following instances:
                     
                     a) The space is reassigned from one organizational unit to another (at the lowest
                        organizational level). Only minor reassignments will be accomplished without following
                        the procedures. Use of the Request for Space Change Form for reassignments will be
                        limited to reassignments under the same dean or director. The form must be approved
                        by an official who is organizationally responsible for both the old and new units,
                        then routed to the Space Planning and Utilization for approval.
                     
                     
                     b) The function of the space is changed so that the room use changes. The Request
                        for Space Change Form must be approved by an official one organizational level above
                        the department or activity utilizing the space, then routed to Space Planning and
                        Utilization for approval.
                     
                     
                     c) Physical alterations occur which cause a change in the square footage of a room.
                        The Request for Space Change Form must be approved by an official one organizational
                        level above the department/activity utilizing the space. This request will also be
                        forwarded by Space Planning and Utilization to Campus Planning and Design and Physical
                        Plant for their review, then routed back to Space Planning and Utilization for approval.
                     
                     
                     3. The request form is not required for other changes, such as reassignment of a faculty
                        office from one faculty member to another.
                     
                     
                     4. When space is reassigned between organizational units with different heads, the
                        original department will report only the reassignment, identifying the new unit. The
                        new unit will also report the change and provide the explanation of the new usage.
                     
                     
                     5. Changes in assignment or room use which are not expected to be permanent should
                        be reported if the change exists for longer than six months.
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              What We Do
                              Routine management of almost 6 million square feet of space
                           
                           
                              Who We Are
                              We are Space Planning and Utilization
                           
                           
                              Request a Change
                              Access the Request for Space Change Form
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/9/15
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/space/process.php
