http://www.memphis.edu/theatre/admissions/mtapplication.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Theatre & Dance
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Academic Programs
                        Admissions
                        People
                        Production Archives
                        Purchase Tickets
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           Admissions
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Application and Audition Process
                                       
                                       BFA Performance 
                                       
                                       BFA Musical Theatre
                                       
                                       BFA Design and Technical Production
                                       
                                       Dance
                                       
                                       All MFA Graduate Studies
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Theatre & Dance
                              	
                        
                              	admissions
                              	
                        Musical Theatre Application and Audition Process
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Musical Theatre BFA
                     1. All students should apply to the University of Memphis. Admission to the department
                     of Theatre & Dance is contingent upon successful admission to the University and generally
                     we do not make a final decision on a student's application until they have been accepted
                     to the University. Therefore, we encourage students to apply as early as possible.
                     The online application can be found HERE .
                     
                     2. Apply to the Department of Theatre & Dance . As part of the application you will be asked to provide information about yourself
                        and your history as a theatrical artist. In order to successfully complete the application
                        you should be ready to:
                     
                     
                     Provide biographical information about yourself and your family Provide information about your academic background include GPA and test scores Provide contact information including email for at least one reference who will be
                        willing to submit a recommendation on your behalf Upload a resume including any past work in theatre Upload a short essay on your general background, theatrical interests and hopes, and
                        why you are interest in study within the Department of Theatre & Dance. The application is due no later than one week before your chosen audition date.
                     
                     
                     START THE APPLICATION HERE
                     
                     3. As part of the department application, you will have to make an appointment for
                        one of our on-campus audition dates.
                     
                     Students are automatically considered for all scholarship opportunities as part of
                     their application and audition/interview provided they complete the in-person or recorded
                     audition/interview by the last scholarship date (March 18, 2017 for students beginning
                     Fall 2017).
                     
                     The 2016 on-campus audition/interview dates for late admission to the 2016 Fall semester are:
                     
                     
                     Monday, August 15, 2016 (no scholarship consideration)
                     
                     The 2016 on-campus audition/interview dates for admission to the 2017 Spring semester are:
                     
                     
                     Monday, December 5, 2016 (no scholarship consideration)
                     
                     The 2017 on-campus audition/interview dates for admission and full scholarship consideration for the 2017 Fall semester are:
                     
                     
                     Saturday, February 18, 2017 Saturday, March 18, 2017 The musical theatre program ONLY offers auditions on-campus on these dates. Auditions
                        on other on-campus days are for other programs only.
                     
                     
                     The 2017 on-campus audition/interview dates for entrance consideration ONLY for the 2017 Fall semester , no scholarship consideration are:
                     
                     
                     Monday, April 17, 2017 – Not available for Musical Theatre applicants
                     
                     Online recorded auditions are accepted for students living more the 150 miles from
                        Memphis. Recorded auditions must be received by March 18, 2017 to be considered for
                        scholarships.
                     
                     
                     On your audition day, you will participate in group improvisation exercises as well
                        as present a monologue. In person auditions are required for all students who live
                        within a 150 mile radius of Memphis. Students who are unable to travel to campus may
                        upload material including at least one monologue as part of their application. In
                        2016-2017 students may complete their audition regionally by participating in the
                        Undergraduate College auditions at the following festivals:
                     
                     
                     North Texas Auditions - Greater Dallas Area – Thursday and Friday, November 17 and
                        18, 2016 Greater Houston Area Auditions - High School for the Performing and Visual Arts (HSPVA)
                        – TBA South Eastern Theatre Conference (SETC) – March 2-5, 2016 - Lexington, KY Tennessee Thespian Festival – January 13-14, 2017 Arkansas Thespian Festival – TBA
                     
                     
                     You will be prompted to select the site you wish to audition at as part of the application.
                     
                     The Musical Theatre audition is comprehensive and evaluates students' abilities in
                        singing, acting, and dance. Space in the program is limited and will be given to students
                        who best exhibit potential for development in the field based on the audition. For
                        the audition students should prepare:
                     
                     
                     One short monologue from a play not to exceed 2 minutes. The monologue must be memorized
                        and should be performed in the context of the entire play. The emphasis is on simple
                        reality. Though not required, students may bring additional monologues to the audition,
                        which may be seen at the discretion of the faculty. One song from the standard musical theatre repertoire. The song must be memorized
                        and should be performed in the context of the entire show. An accompanist will be
                        provided. Students may bring their own accompanist but no recorded accompaniment will
                        be permitted and students may not sing a cappella. Though not required, students may
                        bring additional songs to the audition, which may be seen at the discretion of the
                        faculty. Students may also be asked to do some short pitch-matching exercises. A dance audition will be required which will consist of a short dance class at the
                        conclusion of which a musical theatre combination will be taught and performed for
                        the faculty in small groups.
                     
                     
                     Suggestions for the audition:
                     
                     Choose monologues that are appropriate for your age and experience. Be able to discuss
                        the play as a whole. It's best to select monologues from plays, as opposed to special
                        material written for monologue books. Avoid historic styles, such as Shakespeare,
                        and verse or poetry. Avoid dialects. Use good judgment in selecting the monologues,
                        avoiding pieces that may be inappropriate because of language or situation. Choose songs with which you can communicate a specific situation in a clear context
                        with an objective (goal). Make the situation as honest and specific as possible. Select
                        material that is suitable for your age and experience. Choose songs that fit comfortably
                        within your range. If you are using a transposition of a song, be sure that you have
                        correctly printed the melody, lyrics and accompaniment in the new key. Your music
                        should be in a binder, or taped without page turns. Though it isn't possible to prepare specifically for the dance audition, applicants
                        generally have better success if they either have dance training or have danced to
                        various degrees in productions. While the performance of the musical theatre combination
                        is important equal emphasis is given to the class section of the audition. Students
                        who seem readily trainable in movement will be most successful in the audition.
                     
                     
                     4. Students can expect to hear about their application status approximately two weeks
                        after their audition has been completed. Scholarship decisions are generally made
                        during the first week of April. All students are automatically considered for scholarships
                        provided they complete their in-person (or online) audition by March 18th.
                     
                     
                     *Note: The department of Theatre & Dance application is hosted online by Decision
                        Desk, a third party company. Decision desk charges $20 per application to complete
                        the online application. Applying online allows the faculty to review your application
                        in the most timely fashion, and is the easiest and fastest way to apply to the Department
                        of Theatre & Dance. If you do not wish to apply online please use the following link to request more information about other options.
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Admissions
                        
                           
                              
                              Application and Audition Process
                                    
                                    BFA Performance 
                                    
                                    BFA Musical Theatre
                                    
                                    BFA Design and Technical Production
                                    
                                    Dance
                                    
                                    All MFA Graduate Studies
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              2016-2017 Season
                              Join us for our 2016-2017 Theatre & Dance Season
                           
                           
                              Little Shop of Horrors
                              Listen to director Jacob Allen and Kacky Walton on Checking on the Arts on WKNO.
                           
                           
                              Watch Me – Theatre Video
                              Take a closer look at the UofM Department of Theatre & Dance
                           
                           
                              Alumni in the news!
                              Jung Han Kim (MFA'15) to direct Titus Andronicus at The Rose Theatre, Bankside London.
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/theatre/admissions/mtapplication.php
