http://www.memphis.edu/lead/apply/index.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			The Department of Leadership
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        HIAD
                        LDPS
                        Faculty
                        Our Graduates
                     
                     
                        
                           Apply Now!
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Application Process
                                 LDPS
                                       Coursework
                                       General Information
                                    
                                 
                                 HIAD
                                       Coursework
                                       General Information
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	LEAD
                              	
                        
                           	Apply 
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Apply Now!
                     
                     Welcome to the Department of Leadership. We are now excepting applications for Spring
                        2017! Enrollment information can be ascertained below and in the graduate catalog . 
                     
                     
                     Our K-12 administration program provides students with advanced degrees and the chance
                        to increase career opportunities in the real world. In addition to studying K-12 administration
                        and supervision, students in our programs also have a chance to study the building
                        blocks of our modern educational framework: leadership, policy studies, and organizational
                        effectiveness.
                     
                     
                     Our higher and adult education division trains students for careers in higher education
                        administration, student personnel services, and adult education positions in a variety
                        of settings. Our graduates have found success with placement in a wide variety of
                        career fields, including but not limited to the leaders highlighted on this site .
                     
                     
                     In the information below, you will find an excerpt from our graduate catalog detailing
                        the application process, as well as a number of links to documents and guidelines
                        to help you as you complete our application. To learn more about the courses of study
                        we offer, please visit the "Our Programs" page, and if you have any questions, please
                        don't hesitate to Contact Us !
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     I. Memphis Leadership Scholars Program 
                     
                     This 12 month, blended-learning 30 semester hours graduate education program is built
                        upon Tennessee Instructional Leadership Standards. Successful students will receive
                        a M.Ed. or Ed.S. degree and a Tennessee Instructional Leader license.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admissions 
                     
                     
                        
                        Candidates are nominated by local school district superintendents (or designees) and
                           must meet graduate entry requirements at the U of M.
                        
                        
                        Once the student has been nominated for our program each nominee must submit a completed
                           application packet to the University Graduate School that includes:
                           
                           
                              
                              A completed admissions application
                              
                              An official report of the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) score. GRE is required
                                 for master's degree even in cases where applicant already has one master's degree.
                              
                              
                              Official transcripts for all prior undergraduate and graduate courses.
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                         In addition, each nominee must submit a portfolio to the Department of Leadership
                           that includes: 
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              Letter of application to the department
                              
                              Statement of goals
                              
                              Current resume
                              
                               Official transcript(s)
                              
                              Philosophy of education statement
                              
                              Resume 
                              
                              Three professional letters of application on Letter Head
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements
                     
                     The Memphis Leadership Scholars Program process includes five major components:
                     
                     
                        
                        Rigorous selection
                        
                        Team Trek experiential leadership learning
                        
                        blended on-line and seminar classes
                        
                        mentoring
                        
                        outstanding field experiences
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                         A three-day Team Trek leadership experience starts the program
                        
                        The 12 month program includes on-line instruction that earns 9 semester hours of credit
                        
                        Weekend seminars and summer classes earn 21 semester hours of credit
                        
                        The final semester includes attendance at a national principals' conference, on-site
                           exemplary K-12 school visits and mentoring.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     II. Master of Science (MS) in Leadership and Policy Studies:
                     
                     The Department offers the Master of Science degree in Leadership and Policy Studies
                        with concentrations in (1)Leadership, and (2) Student Personnel.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admission
                     
                     
                        
                           
                           Each applicant must submit a completed application packet to the University Graduate
                              School that includes:
                              
                                 
                                 A completed admissions application
                                 
                                 An official report of the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) score. GRE is required
                                    for master's degree even in cases where applicant already has one master's degree.
                                 
                                 
                                 Official transcripts for all prior undergraduate and graduate courses.
                                 
                              
                           
                           
                        
                     
                        
                        In addition to #1 above, each applicant to the M.S. in Leadership or M.S. in Student
                           Personnel must submit:
                              
                              Letter of application
                              
                              Professional resume
                              
                              Three letters of professional recommendation on letterhead
                              
                              Brief statement of professional goals
                              
                              The admission decision will be based on a holistic profile that includes, but is not
                                 limited to, information contained in the completed application packet described above.
                                 Interested applicants are required to contact the departmental office to obtain admission
                                 forms and a more complete statement of admission guidelines.
                              
                              
                              Deadline for submission of all application material for M.S. Leadership concentration
                                 and M.S. Student Personnel concentration is April 1 for summer and fall semesters,
                                 and November 1 for spring semester
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Students completing the MS or EdD in Leadership and Policy Studies will: (1) have
                        developed their skills in leadership, change, policy formulation, the student's program
                        and stewardship of a vision of effectiveness that is shared by others in the organization;
                        (2) have had opportunities to analyze data and its relationship to organizational
                        effectiveness; (3) have concentrated their studies in  (a) Leadership, or (c) Student
                        Personnel (MS only); and (4) have concentrated their studies in an area of specialization. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School
                        (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued.
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        A minimum of 36 semester hours is required of all students to obtain the master’s
                           degree.
                        
                        
                        Students will take 9 hours of the departmental core: LEAD 7000, LEAD 7100, and EDPR
                           7521; and 27 other hours of approved courses in their concentration.
                        
                        
                        The following policies in the Department of Leadership are exceptions to the policies
                           of the Graduate School:
                           
                              
                              A maximum of six (6) hours of transfer credit can be counted toward the concentration
                                 in School Administration and Supervision.
                              
                              
                              A maximum of six (6) hours of course work can be validated in the concentration in
                                 School Administration and Supervision.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Concentrations and Courses:
                           
                              
                              School Administration and Supervision: LDPS 7110, 7120, 7131, 7140, 7141, 7150, 7330;
                                 LEAD 7004, 7210
                              
                              
                              Leadership: A minimum of 27 semester hours, including LEAD 7500, 7100, 5 additional
                                 departmental courses, and a portfolio. A minimum of B must be earned in all courses
                                 on the program of study.
                              
                              
                              Administration/Supervision Licensure Program: The department maintains a program leading
                                 to licensure for students holding an appropriate master’s degree
                              
                              
                              Student Personnel: A minimum of 27 semester hours, including LEAD 7500; HIAD 7060,
                                 7410, 7440, 7442, 7443, 7444; 2 additional courses; and a portfolio. A minimum of
                                 B must be earned in all courses on the program of study.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     III. Doctor of Education (EdD) Degree Program
                     
                     A. Program Admission
                     
                     
                        
                        Each applicant must submit a completed application packet to the University Graduate
                           School that includes:
                           
                              
                              A completed admissions application.
                              
                              An official report of the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) score.
                              
                              Official transcripts for all prior undergraduate and graduate courses.
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        In addition, each applicant to the Ed.D. must submit a portfolio to the Department
                           of Leadership that includes:
                           
                              
                              Letter of application
                              
                              Professional resume
                              
                              Three letters of professional recommendation on letterhead
                              
                              A brief statement of professional goals
                              
                              A personal interview preceded by a writing sample will be scheduled with each applicant
                                 and admission decision will be made following the personal interview. The decision
                                 will be based on a holistic profile that includes, but is not limited to information
                                 contained in the completed application packet described above and obtained during
                                 the personal interview. Interested applicants are required to contact the departmental
                                 office to obtain admission forms and a more complete statement of admission guidelines.
                              
                              
                              Deadline for submission of all application material is the 3rd Friday in February
                                 for the summer semester, the 3rd Friday in June for the fall semester, and the 3rd
                                 Friday in September for the spring semester.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        A minimum of 54 semester hours beyond the master’s degree is required of all students.
                        
                        Fifteen hours must be taken in the departmental core: LEAD 8001, 8002, 8003, EDPR
                           8541 and 8542; 9 hours of dissertation; and 30 additional hours.
                        
                        
                        Doctoral programs are not intended for basic administrative certification. Students
                           wishing certification through this program must complete additional course work approximating
                           the requirements in the Certification program noted above.
                        
                        
                        Concentrations and Courses:
                           
                              
                              Educational Leadership: LDPS 8121, 8132, and 8181, and 21 hours approved by the student’s
                                 advisory committee.
                              
                              
                              Policy Studies: LDPS 8305, 8310, and 8350, and 21 hours approved by the student’s
                                 advisory committee.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     IV. Doctor of Education (EdD) in Higher Education and Adult Education
                     
                     Program objectives are: (1) development of skills in leadership, higher education
                        or adult education, policy formulation, implementation, and evaluation; (2) development
                        of research skills such as data and the relationship to organizational effectiveness;
                        and (3) knowledge and understanding within a concentration area.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admission
                     
                     
                        
                        Each applicant must submit a completed application packet to the Graduate School that
                           includes:
                           
                              
                              A completed admissions application
                              
                              An official report of Graduate Record Examination (GRE) scores
                              
                              Official transcripts for all prior undergraduate and graduate courses
                              
                              In addition, each applicant must submit the following to the Department of Leadership:
                                 
                                    
                                    A professional resume
                                    
                                    A two-three page statement of academic and professional goals
                                    
                                    Three letters of recommendation
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              The admission committee may request a personal interview.
                              
                              The admission decision will be based on a holistic profile that includes, but is not
                                 limited to, information contained in the completed application packet described above
                                 and obtained during the personal interview. Interested applicants are encouraged to
                                 contact the departmental office to obtain admission forms and a more completed statement
                                 of admission guidelines for the higher and adult education program.
                              
                              
                              Deadline for submission of all application material is April 1 for the summer and
                                 fall semesters, and November 1 for the spring semester.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        A minimum of 54 semester hours beyond the master’s degree, including the core requirements
                           of LEAD 8001, 8003, 8500, HIAD 8412, 8415, 8403, EDPR 8541, 8542, and 1 additional
                           research methods course approved by the advisor; 9 hours of dissertation; and 18 hours
                           approved in the concentration. Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write the dissertation.
                        
                        
                        Concentrations
                           
                              
                              Higher Education: HIAD 8401, 8420, 8422, 8541, and 6 elective hours approved by the
                                 student’s advisory committee.
                              
                              
                              Adult Education: HIAD 8510, 8541, 8542, and 9 elective hours approved by the student’s
                                 advisory committee.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        The following policies in the Department of Leadership are exceptions to the policies
                           of the Graduate School:
                           
                              
                              Graduate students must complete the doctoral program within ten (10) calendar years.
                              
                              A maximum of twelve (12) hours of transfer credit/credits earned as nondegree can
                                 be counted toward the degree.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        A minimum of B must be earned in all courses as indicated on the program of study
                           for HIAD doctoral programs.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     V. Certificate in Community College Teaching and Leadership
                     
                     The Department of Leadership offers a certificate for individuals interested in either
                        a teaching or an administrative career in a community college setting. Consisting
                        of 15-18 hours of course work, this program can be applied to or taken simultaneously
                        with a Master of Science degree in Leadership, Student Personnel Services, or a Doctor
                        of Education degree in Higher and Adult Education. Students not pursuing a degree
                        may apply for admission to the Graduate School as certificate seeking. For more information
                        call 901-678-3531. Click here to view corresponding gainful employment data.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admission:
                     
                     
                        
                        Students already enrolled in a graduate degree seeking program at The University of
                           Memphis must contact the office of Graduate Admissions to request a program status
                           change to pursue the Certificate in Community College Teaching and Leadership. Students
                           must also apply to the Department of Leadership (Higher and Adult Education) to be
                           considered for admission to the certificate program (see below).
                        
                        
                        Students who are only applying to the Certificate program must apply to the Graduate
                           School as a Graduate Certificate student.
                        
                        
                        All students interested in the Community College Teaching and Leadership Certificate
                           must undergo departmental review for admission.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     The following items must be provided to the Department of Leadership in addition to
                        applying to the Graduate School:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Transcripts from your graduate degree or undergraduate degree if a graduate degree
                           has not been earned. Transcripts are not required if your degree was earned from the
                           University of Memphis.
                        
                        
                        Three letters of recommendation;
                        
                        A statement of academic and professional goals detailing how this program will advance
                           your career plans.
                        
                        
                        All departmental materials must be sent to hiad@memphis.edu or delivered to the address
                           below: The HIAD Admissions Committee The University of Memphis Department of Leadership 311 Browning Hall Memphis, TN 38152
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Departmental application deadlines are November 1 for the spring term and April 1
                        for the summer and fall terms. All materials must be received by the deadline to be
                        considered.
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements:
                     
                     HIAD 7411-8411, Community Colleges HIAD 7511-8511, Administration and Governance in the Community College HIAD 7541-8541, College Teaching HIAD 8415, IT Trends and Issues in Higher Education LEAD 7500-8500, Adult Learning and Leadership HIAD 7060-8060, Internship in Higher and Adult Education (may be waived for those
                        with broad experience in community college teaching or administration)
                     
                     
                     A minimum of "B" must be earned in all courses included in the Community College Certificate
                        program.
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Apply Now!
                        
                           
                              
                              Application Process
                              LDPS
                                    Coursework
                                    General Information
                                 
                              
                              HIAD
                                    Coursework
                                    General Information
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply Now 
                              Start an application and view the Graduate Catalog
                           
                           
                              About Us
                              Learn more about the Department of Leadership and what we do
                           
                           
                              Need Help? Contact Us! 
                              Questions or comments? Get in touch with our support staff!
                           
                           
                              Online Resources 
                              A list of useful links, forms, and documents for current and prospective Leadership
                                 students 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/12/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/lead/apply/index.php
