http://www.memphis.edu/mediaroom/releases/2016/march16/egyptianblue.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			UofM Media Room
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Publications
                        Resources
                        UofM Magazine
                        News Releases
                        Contact
                     
                     
                        
                           News Releases
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Latest News Releases
                                       October 2016
                                       September 2016
                                       August 2016
                                       July 2016
                                       June 2016
                                       May 2016
                                       April 2016
                                       March 2016
                                       February 2016
                                       January 2016
                                    
                                 
                                 News Releases Archive
                                       2015
                                       2014
                                    
                                 
                                 Awards
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Media Room
                              	
                        
                              	News Releases
                              	
                        Egyptian Blue
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     University of Memphis Egyptologist Identifies Earliest Known Example of Egyptian Blue
                     
                     March 18, 2016 - Lorelei H. Corcoran, professor and director of the Institute of Egyptian
                        Art & Archaeology at the University of Memphis, has identified the earliest known
                        example of the oldest synthetic pigment in the world, Egyptian blue, on a bowl that
                        is dated to 3250 BCE. The small, alabaster bowl, in the collection of the Museum of
                        Fine Arts (MFA) Boston, was excavated at the predynastic site of Hierakonpolis in
                        1898 by J. E. Quibell working for the Egyptian Research Account.
                     
                     
                     "Corcoran's discovery of the use of Egyptian blue at such an early period reminds
                        us of the sophistication of Egypt prior to Dynasty 1," said Rita E. Freed, the John
                        F. Cogan Jr. and Mary L. Cornille Chair of Art of the Ancient World at the MFA. "It
                        also makes us wonder how many other techniques and concepts central to dynastic Egypt
                        were developed earlier. I commend her for her meticulous scholarship."
                     
                     
                     Corcoran has researched the use of color in Ancient Egyptian art for more than three
                        decades, having first become interested in the subject while writing her dissertation
                        on the red shrouds of Roman portrait mummies. She came across the bowl while studying
                        the symbolic use of color and immediately recognized its potential significance. "Although
                        conservators have found evidence from as early as late Dynasty 1, Egyptologists have
                        traditionally dated the use of Egyptian blue much later, to Dynasty 4 (2543-2436 BCE).
                        I knew that if the blue pigment on the bowl could be confirmed as Egyptian blue, and
                        be shown to have been applied to the bowl at the time of its manufacture, that this
                        would definitively push back our dating of the technology to produce Egyptian blue
                        to the dawn of pharaonic history."
                     
                     
                     Incised early hieroglyphs on the bowl are filled with a blue frit that was analyzed
                        and confirmed to be Egyptian blue by the MFA's Scientific Research Laboratory under
                        the direction of Richard Newman.
                     
                     
                     Not only was Corcoran able to identify the significance of the bowl because of the
                        appearance on it of Egyptian blue, she was also able to date it 150 years earlier
                        than it had been previously dated. The bowl had been attributed to King Scorpion,
                        Dynasty 0, 3100 BCE, an early ruler who preceded King Narmer, the acknowledged unifier
                        of Ancient Egypt. The hieroglyphs on the bowl, however, are more similar in form to
                        those associated with earlier rulers (such as an earlier Scorpion) identified at Abydos
                        by Günter Dreyer and those found in rock drawings discovered by John and Deborah Darnell
                        at a remote desert site called Gebel Tjauti. Dreyer and Darnell date these signs to
                        3250 BCE. John Darnell, professor of Egyptology at Yale University, found the combination
                        of the addition of these inscriptions to the corpus of early writing with the identification
                        of Egyptian blue exciting.
                     
                     
                     "The fact that Corcoran has shown that Egyptian blue appears at the dawn of Dynasty
                        0 reveals that the period is even more profoundly important for the development of
                        pharaonic culture than we may have suspected," said Darnell. "The same period saw
                        the development of true hieroglyphic writing, and now appears as a time of profound
                        technological advancement. Pharaonic Egypt is not something that springs forth fully
                        developed at the beginning of the First Dynasty, but it is the outcome of a period
                        of great inventiveness in Upper Egypt more than a century earlier. Thanks to Corcoran,
                        we now know that this inventiveness extended beyond the realms of writing, administration
                        and ideology, and extended to great strides in chemistry and industry."
                     
                     
                     That such ancient technology has modern implications within nanotechnology has recently
                        been noted by chemists who foresee a use for Egyptian blue for biomedical imagery
                        and as an ingredient in security ink due to its luminescent quality.
                     
                     
                     Corcoran has worked closely in cooperation with conservators on earlier projects including
                        the publication with Marie Svoboda, associate conservator at the J. Paul Getty Museum,
                        of Herakleides, the only mummy in the Getty collection, and appreciates the value
                        of interdisciplinary research. As a member of the international collaborative study
                        project Ancient Panel Paintings: Examination, Analysis and Research (APPEAR), initiated by the J. Paul Getty Museum, Corcoran is also in communication
                        with a former Getty conservator, Marc Walton, now senior scientist at Northwestern
                        University/ Art Institute of Chicago Center for Scientific Studies in the Arts, whose
                        interest in the color blue has led him to look for evidence of the material on Roman
                        mummy portraits that date to the very end of Egyptian history.
                     
                     
                     "This new evidence of Egyptian blue pigment on an alabaster bowl from such an early
                        date is remarkable from a materials point of view," said Walton. "I believe this finding
                        now constitutes the earliest example of a man-made pigment. The date of the bowl coincides
                        with the first appearance in Egypt of lapis lazuli that was thought to be the antecedent
                        and inspiration for the creation of synthetic Egyptian blue pigment. Now we must rethink
                        the nature and sequence of this invention and how early Egyptians conceived of the
                        color blue."
                     
                     
                     Corcoran's in-depth article "The Color Blue as an Animator in Ancient Egyptian Art,"
                        will appear in Rachael B. Goldman ed., Essays in Global Color History: Interpreting
                        the Ancient Spectrum (Gorgias Press, NJ, 2016). In it, she will discuss everything
                        from the linguistic problems of the use of the color term for blue – which she calls
                        "the most controversial color in the ancient Egyptian palette" – to the Egyptian preoccupation
                        with its scintillating effects. One of the latest discoveries of Egyptian blue has
                        been on the pupils of the eyes of a Greek sculpture in the British Museum that parallels
                        the much earlier use of gold on the eyes of a cat in a New Kingdom wall painting in
                        the British Museum. The use, Corcoran quipped, captures the animating phenomenon of
                        "eyeshine," familiar to every pet owner.
                     
                     
                     Contact: Gabrielle Maxey 901.678.2843 gmaxey@memphis.edu
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        News Releases
                        
                           
                              
                              Latest News Releases
                                    October 2016
                                    September 2016
                                    August 2016
                                    July 2016
                                    June 2016
                                    May 2016
                                    April 2016
                                    March 2016
                                    February 2016
                                    January 2016
                                 
                              
                              News Releases Archive
                                    2015
                                    2014
                                 
                              
                              Awards
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Music Performance Calendar
                              Find out where the music is
                           
                           
                              Art Museum
                              Learn about the latest exhibits
                           
                           
                              The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 11/3/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/mediaroom/releases/2016/march16/egyptianblue.php
