http://www.memphis.edu/fogelmangalleries/news_events/news_events.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Exhibitions
                        Events
                        Press
                        Opportunities
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art
                              	
                        
                              	Calendar
                              	
                        Events
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Events
                     
                     FOLLOW US 
                     
                     All events are free and open to the public.
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Spring 2016 BFA Studio Arts Exhibition
                     
                     
                     
                     IN FLUX, the spring 2016 BFA thesis exhibition, features works by nine graduating
                        seniors of The University of Memphis Department of Art: Addie Ray, Cassandra Wery,
                        Kayla Billings, Maggie McGrath, Malory Marlin, Mikeya Oliver, Ruben Garnica, Terrance
                        Mason and Zi Felton. The exhibition is a compilation of works in a variety of mediums
                        including painting, photography, sculpture, and installation art. The presentation
                        celebrates the completion of undergraduate studies and the culmination of each student's
                        artistic exploration and experiences. An opening reception will be held Friday, March
                        18th from 5-­8 PM in the galleries. The artists will also give a talk about their
                        work in the Art and Communication Building, Room 310, on March 23rd at 7 PM. All events
                        are free and open to the public.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     MFA Thesis Exhibition
                     
                     April 11–29, 2016
                     
                     "Opening Reception: Friday April 15, 5-8 PM
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Graphic Design Senior Portfolio Exhibition
                     
                     May 5, 2016
                     
                     "Reception: Thursday, May 5, 5-8 PM
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     Image caption (above): Michael Aurbach, Administrative Vision, 2013. Mixed media. Image courtesy of the artist.
                     
                     
                     "Three Decades of Making Stuff": Public Lecture by Michael Aurbach
                     
                     Thursday, January 21, 2016 7 PM Art and Communication Building, Room 310 (3715 Central Avenue; Memphis, TN) Free and open to the public
                     
                     
                     Nashville-based artist-educator Michael Aurbach and exhibition judge will reflect
                        on the past three decades of his career. Mr. Aurbach is best known for his socially
                        inspired sculptures that addresses issues of identity, death, institutional power,
                        and contemporary forms of scholarship. He has been the recipient of numerous grants
                        and awards. Among the institutions and foundations that have provided support for
                        his work are the National Endowment for the Arts, the Southern Arts Federation, the
                        Tennessee Arts Commission, Art Matters Inc., the Puffin Foundation, the Beren Foundation,
                        and Vanderbilt University. From 2002-04, he served as president of the College Art
                        Association, the world's largest organization of visual arts professionals. In December 2015, Aurbach retired as Professor of Fine Arts at Vanderbilt University,
                        having taught sculpture and drawing since1986.
                     
                     
                     For more information, please visit the artist's website: www.aurbachsculpture.com
                     
                     
                     
                     Virginia Overton
                     
                     
                     
                     Virginia Overton was born in Nashville, Tennessee and lives and works in Brooklyn,
                        New York. She received her BFA and MFA from the University of Memphis. Recent solo
                        exhibitions include White Cube, London (2015), Museum of Contemporary Art, North Miami
                        (2014), Westfälischer Kunstverein, Munster (2013-4), Kunsthalle Bern (2013), The Power
                        Station, Dallas (2013) and Power House, Memphis (2007).
                     
                     
                     Overton's work comprises installation, sculpture and photography, often beginning
                        intuitively as a direct response to her physical presence in a particular space. Through
                        a process of trial and error, she creates sculpture that is performative, sometimes
                        obstructing, bisecting, dividing or joining the architecture of a space with works
                        that are dramatic and minimal in feel. Schedule while on campus. All events are open, with the exception of the graduate
                        studio visits, which are individual meetings.
                     
                     
                     Wednesday, Nov 18:
                     
                     2:30 – 4:30 Fogelman Galleries Meet with Senior BFA students in FOOD, their exit exhibition, Informal discussion/critique
                        of work in the exhibition.
                     
                     
                     7:00 –8:30 Room 310, ACB public talk with Q&A
                     
                     
                     Thursday, Nov 19:
                     
                     10:00 – 5:00 Sculpture Studio casting project/workshop
                     
                     
                     Friday, Nov 20:
                     
                     9:00 –3:00 Studio visits with Graduate Students sign up sheet will be available. Check with Jed Jackson
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     inveterate: toni collums roberts
                     
                     November 23 – December 4, 2015
                     
                     The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art
                     
                     
                     
                     The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art is pleased to present
                        inveterate: toni collums roberts. For this MFA thesis exhibition, Collums Roberts
                        has created a body work lacking the standards of today's visual culture. Spanning
                        both gallery spaces with an installation-based performance involving 8,000 plaster
                        cubes in one, and a video in the other, the exhibition is an attempt at creating a
                        fertile place for boredom to be generated, questioned, or ignored. The combination
                        of these elements creates a space for theories of art and philosophy to merge and
                        morph, examining the possibility that technology's perpetuation of boredom is at the
                        root of contemporary society's darkest fantasies.
                     
                     
                     Collums Roberts' performance will occur daily throughout the duration of the exhibition.
                     
                     The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art is open Monday through
                        Friday from 9 am to 4 pm, but will be closed November 25-29, for the Thanksgiving
                        holiday.
                     
                     
                     For more information, please contact fogelmangalleries@memphis.edu or 901.678.3052.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Bruce West Gallery Talk and Book Signing
                     
                     Friday, November 6, 5-6:30 PM (galleries open until 8 PM) The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art 3715 Central Ave. Rooms 230 and 240
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Missouri-based photographer Bruce West will speak about his work in the galleries
                        and will be signing copies of his book The True Gospel Preached Here (2014, University Press of Mississippi) afterwards. Books will be available for purchase
                        at the event and are currently on sale in The University of Memphis Bookstore.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Gallery talk and book signing will go from 5 to 6:30 PM. The galleries will remain
                        open for reception until 8 PM. This event will also serve as a closing reception for
                        the exhibitions "The True Gospel Preached Here: Photographs by Bruce West" and "Memphis
                        Collects Contemporary Folk Art," on view at The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries
                        of Contemporary Art from October 5 to November 6.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      Two UofM Exhibitions Celebrate Contemporary Folk Art
                     
                     
                     
                     Conversation with the Collectors Thursday, Oct. 22, 5-7 pm The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art
                     
                     
                     Join collectors John Jerit, Rollin Riggs and Craig Wiener for a casual conversation
                        moderated by Dr. Carol Crown in the galleries as they discuss their interest in folk
                        art and their passion for collecting.
                     
                     
                     Bruce West Gallery Talk and Book Signing Friday, Nov. 6, 5-8 pm The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art
                     
                     
                     Photographer Bruce West will speak about his work and will be signing copies of his
                        book The True Gospel Preached Here (2014, University Press of Mississippi) afterwards.
                        Books will be available for purchase. This event will also serve as a closing reception
                        for both exhibitions.
                     
                     
                     Contact: Kimberly Rogers 901.678.4164 krogers@memphis.edu
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Visit
                              Open Monday through Friday, 9 am to 4 pm
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Located in the Art and Communication Building
                           
                           
                              Support
                              There are many ways in which you can support The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries
                                 of Contemporary Art.
                              
                           
                           
                              Join our Mailing List
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 3/15/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/fogelmangalleries/news_events/news_events.php
