http://cybersummit.memphis.edu/2012
=======================================================================================











 
  

   
    Cyber Security Expo | October 19, 2012
   
   
    
     
      Home
      Speakers
      Sponsors
      Agenda
      Arrival
      Gallery
     
    
   

  
  

   
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

  
  


  
  

home This year's theme: Providing Business Security: New Issues
The University of Memphis Center for Information Assurance will
be hosting the 5 th Annual Cyber Security Expo at the FedEx
Institute of Technology on October 19th, 2012. Information
Assurance and Cyber Security experts will be onsite for presentations
and networking to address current issues of cyber security.





Topics may include:

Bring Your Own Device (BYOD)
Mobile Device Security
Identity Theft
Cloud Security
Critical Infrastructure
Social Media Threats
Virtual Supply Chain
Organized Cyber Crime


Door prizes will be given.





The speakers include:



Dr. Ron Ross
Computer Security Division, Information Technology Laboratory, National Institute of Standards and Technology
presentation


Bio
Dr. Ron Ross is a Fellow at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). His current areas of specialization include information security and risk management. Dr. Ross leads the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) Implementation Project, which includes the development of security standards and guidelines for the federal government, contractors, and the United States critical information infrastructure. His recent publications include Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) Publication 199 (security categorization standard), FIPS Publication 200 (security requirements standard), NIST Special Publication (SP) 800-53 (security controls guideline), NIST SP 800-53A (security assessment guideline), NIST SP 800-37 (security authorization guideline), NIST SP 800-39 (risk management guideline), and NIST SP 800-30 (risk assessment guideline). Dr. Ross is the principal architect of the Risk Management Framework and multi-tiered approach that provides a disciplined and structured methodology for integrating the suite of FISMA standards and guidelines into a comprehensive enterprise-wide information security program. Dr. Ross also leads the Joint Task Force Transformation Initiative, a partnership with NIST, the Department of Defense, the Intelligence Community, the Office of the Director National Intelligence, and the Committee on National Security Systems to develop a unified information security framework for the federal government.
In addition to his responsibilities at NIST, Dr. Ross supports the U.S. State Department in the international outreach program for information security and critical infrastructure protection. Dr. Ross previously served as the Director of the National Information Assurance Partnership, a joint activity of NIST and the National Security Agency. A graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point, Dr. Ross served in a variety of leadership and technical positions during his over twenty-year career in the United States Army. While assigned to the National Security Agency, he received the Scientific Achievement Award for his work on an inter-agency national security project and was awarded the Defense Superior Service Medal upon his departure from the agency. Dr. Ross is a three-time recipient of the Federal 100 award for his leadership and technical contributions to critical information security projects affecting the federal government and is a recipient of the Department of Commerce Gold and Silver Medal Awards. Dr. Ross has been inducted into the Information Systems Security Association (ISSA) Hall of Fame and given its highest honor of ISSA Distinguished Fellow. Dr. Ross has also received several private sector cyber security awards and recognition including the Vanguard Chairman's Award, the Symantec Cyber 7 Award, InformationWeek's Government CIO 50 Award, Best of GTRA Award, and the ISACA National Capital Area Conyers Award. During his military career, Dr. Ross served as a White House aide and as a senior technical advisor to the Department of the Army. Dr. Ross is a graduate of the Defense Systems Management College and holds Masters and Ph.D. degrees in Computer Science from the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School specializing in artificial intelligence and robotics.





Dr. Abel Sanchez
Executive Director, MIT Geospatial Data Center
Title of Talk: HTML5 and Cloud Computing


Bio
Dr. Abel Sanchez is the Executive Director of the MIT Geospatial Data Center. He holds a Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). His areas of expertise include the Internet of Things (IOT), Radio Frequency Identification (RFID), Simulation, and Engineering Complex Software Systems. Dr. Sanchez teaches graduate courses in Software Construction, Information Engineering, and Software Architecture. For the past six years, his research has focused on architecting large scale distributed simulation systems. Recent projects include Grid/Agent Computing, simulating the U.S. critical infrastructure at the National Infrastructure Simulation and Analysis Center (NISAC), and architecting the cyber physical Internet, addressing the 4Ws (What, Where, When, and Why). In the field of computational health research, in partnership with the Harvard Medical School, Dr. Sanchez is working on Reminder Technologies. Presently, Dr. Sanchez is a Principal Investigator in research projects with SAP, Phillip Morris International, Schlumberger, Ford Motor Company, Dassault, Microsoft, and IARPA. Some of the research topics are Big Data, Multicore, Geospatial, and Cyber Security. Dr. Sanchez' software systems are used by Samsung, NEC, NTT, Hitachi, Motorola, SAP, IBM, and Microsoft. Dr. Sanchez consults to companies in the U.S., Europe, Asia, and Latin America.





Nik Puri
Vice President, IT, Compliance and Information Assurance, FedEx Services


Bio
As the Vice President of Compliance and Information Assurance, Nik Puri is responsible for bringing market leadership to FedEx data protection and providing strategic direction to maintaining and improving FedEx IT risk posture globally. In addition, he is the lead champion for creating and adopting an IT Risk Management discipline within the company and its operating subsidiaries. Through his leadership FedEx has created programs that coordinate the identification and remediation of vulnerabilities identified anywhere in the enterprise and with strategic partners systems. FedEx is committed to offering customers safe and reliable delivery of their packages and documents. FedEx is equally committed to securing the information about the shipments, as well as protecting customer privacy. Under Puri's guidance FedEx has implemented security mechanisms including standards, tools and guidelines that support the highest level of confidentiality, integrity and protection of sensitive FedEx electronic data.
Puri joined FedEx in 1999 as a Product Manager, and throughout his career he has held leadership positions in Corporate Strategy, Marketing, Quality and Operations Analysis.
Born in New Delhi, India, Puri earned his master's degree in International Management from Thunderbird Graduate School of International Management in Glendale, Arizona and his undergraduate degree in Engineering from the National Institute of Technology in Trichy, India. He currently resides in Memphis, Tennessee.





Dr. Gerry Dozier
Professor & Chair, Computer Science Department, North Carolina, A&T State University
Director, Office of the Director of National Intelligence Science & Technology Center of Academic Excellence in Advanced Identity Sciences, North Carolina A&T (Center for Advanced Studies in Identity Sciences)
Director, BEACON@A&T
PI, Center for Cyber Defense
Title of Talk: Biometric-based Cyber Security, Darwinian Feature Extraction, and Access Control


Bio
Dr. Gerry Dozier has published over 130 conference and journal publications and has served as an Associate Editor of the IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary Computation and the International Journal of Automation & Soft Computing. Gerry is a member of the Editorial Board for the International Journal of Intelligent Computing & Cybernetics. His research interests include: Artificial & Computational Intelligence, Genetic, Evolutionary, and Neural Computing, Biometrics, Identity Sciences, Cyber Identity, Distributed Constraint Reasoning, Artificial Immune Systems, Machine Learning and Network Intrusion Detection. Gerry earned his Ph.D. from North Carolina State University.





Dr. Vipin Swarup
Chief Scientist, Mission Assurance, MITRE's Information Security Division
Title of Talk: Mission Assurance Against Advanced Cyber Threats


Bio
Dr. Vipin Swarup leads a research portfolio focused on mission assurance against advanced cyber threats.  The portfolio includes research initiatives in mobile computing security, cloud security, network security, cyber analytics, and resiliency. In the past, Dr. Swarup has been the principal investigator of research projects in trust management, cross-boundary information sharing, intrusion detection, security guards, mobile agent security, and type theory, and has published extensively in these and other areas. He played a lead role in orchestrating a team of 30 senior DoD research program managers and developing a DoD-focused Science and Technology (S&T) strategy for cyber conflict defense against advanced cyber threats.  He has served on multiple review panels at DARPA, IARPA, and NSF, on the program committees of numerous conferences and workshops, and as co-chair of several workshops.  Dr. Swarup holds a B.Tech. in Computer Science and Engineering from Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, and an MS and Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.





Kevin Hutchison
Operations Lead, IRS CSIRC
Title of Talk: A Practical Discussion of General Cyber Security Operations Centers





Gary Osland
Business Development Manger, Cisco
presentation

Bio
Gary Osland is a Business Development Manger at Cisco Systems Inc., focusing on U.S. Public Sector Cybersecurity. His responsibilities include bringing Cybersecurity Solutions to market as well and identifying and developing new Cybersecurity solutions and innovation to the US Government. Other responsibilities include promoting Cisco's thought leadership within the Cybersecurity and IT communities. Other roles at Cisco include Systems Engineering and Strategic Account Management positions. He has been in the IT industry for just over 20 years. Some of the other positions he has held include engineering roles in the Defense industry and work within the Telco industry. Gary also serves part time as a Cyber Operations Officer in the Air National Guard.






Questions?
University of Memphis Cyber Expo
(901) 678-5440
cyberexpo@memphis.edu

Thank you for your support!


  
  

Copyright © 2012 by the University of Memphis. Important Notice
  

 
 
 



http://cybersummit.memphis.edu/2012
