http://cybersummit.memphis.edu/2011
=======================================================================================











 
  

   
    Cyber Security Expo | October 7, 2011
   
   
    
     
      Home
      Agenda
      Speakers
      Sponsors
      Arrival
      Gallery
     
    
   

  
  

   
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

  
  


  
  

home This year's theme: Online Social Media Threats
The University of Memphis Center for Information Assurance will
be hosting the 4th Annual Cyber Security Expo at the FedEx
Institute of Technology on October 7th, 2011. Information
Assurance and Cyber Security experts will be onsite for lectures
and networking to address the issues of global cyber security. The
event will be held once again at the beautiful FedEx Institute of
Technology.





Topics include:

Identity Theft
Cloud Security
Critical Infrastructure
Mobile Devices
Social Media Threats
Virtual Supply Chain
Organized Cyber Crime


Door prizes include:

Flip Camera provided by Cisco
2 iPads provided by Pomeroy
2 Tri-State Prize Packs
Streak 7 Tablet provided by Dell






The speakers include:



Gary O'Neal
Digital Forensic Specialist, South East Region, Dell Inc.


Bio
For over twenty-two (22) years, Mr. O'Neal has immersed himself in the challenges of detailed investigations, electronic-security, system design and personal / business protection specialties. These skills were honed through various deployments within small and large company contracts.
After graduating from Hofstra University in 1989, Mr. O'Neal began his career in security with a private investigation firm in Philadelphia, PA. At the early age of 21, he showed adeptness at all forms of investigative techniques. From foot and vehicle surveillance to person location services, witness statement techniques and all types of civil and criminal matters. He demonstrated a creative ability to master any assignment and get the project completed.
After seven (7) years of investigative service, Mr. O'Neal joined ALLIED SECURITY in 1996 and began the process of learning the best practices in personal and business physical security. ALLIED's rigorous training processes were exactly the kind of instruction that permitted him to couple his prior investigative techniques with those of practical protection guidelines for an unmatched edge in security perspectives.
In 1998, Mr. O'Neal recognized the emerging market of electronic security as it related to IP technology and joined a Philadelphia based security systems integrator. In short order, he was able to build a business presence in the Philadelphia region and obtain clients seeking the best electronic protection systems. True integration was just emerging whereby systems such as access control, video and alarms were being combined in a manner that reduced the false alarm rates; common when these systems stand alone. He was also successful in specifying the first digital IP Video system in 1999.
From 1999 to 2006, Mr. O'Neal worked for GE SECURITY as their Northeast technology specialist. System consultation involved the highest levels of security in critical infrastructure, government and private industry using both Microsoft and Linux based technologies. This included: IP Video, long range detection systems, access control, wireless communication, IP based alarm systems and perimeter protection to name a few.
From 2006 to present, Mr. O'Neal has benefited from the experience of working with several Israeli security firms specializing in the unique field of personal, government and business protection as it relates to high technology sensing capabilities.
In November 2010, Gary joined DELL as the digital forensic specialist for the South East Region.
Using DELL's comprehensive Digital Forensic Solutions, Gary offers Police Departments and government entities a robust investigative tool for computers, cell phones, game consoles and just about any other electronic medium using Triage and full disk analysis software & hardware.






Joe Stewart
Director of Malware Research, Dell SecureWorks' Counter Threat Unit
Title of Talk: HTran and the Advanced Persistent Threat


Bio
Joe Stewart is the Director of Malware Research for Dell SecureWorks' Counter Threat Unit.  As a leading expert on malware and Internet threats, he is a frequent commentator on security issues for leading media outlets such as The New York Times, MSNBC, Washington Post, USA Today and others.  Stewart  has presented his security research at many conferences such as RSA, Black Hat, DEFCON, ShmooCon, RECON, Netsec, Hacker Halted USA, Air Force Cyber Space Symposium, AGORA, the Anti-Phishing Working Group, and many international ones, including CERT-EE Conference (Estonia), DeepSec 2008 (Austria), KAIST International Workshop on DDoS Attacks and Defenses (Korea), CFI-CIRT 7th annual IT Security Professional Development Day (Canada), and AusCERT2010 (Australia).






Owen McCusker
Principal Analyst, Sonalysts, Inc.
Title of Talk: Promoting Mission Assurance and Risk Assessment through CyberSecurity


Bio
Owen McCusker founded a cyber security group up at Sonalysts in 2001 and is responsible for the research and development of products and services for that group. Since 2001, Owen has been involved in a number of cyber security programs ranging from providing technical support for large national cyber exercises, researching and developing scalable behavioral-based technologies, to developing security policies for government agencies. Prior to coming to Sonalysts, Owen was a software architect Dictaphone, a provider of multi-channel telephony recording products and an Internet Engineer at Fidelity, developing secure frameworks facilitating online trading.
At Sonalysts, Owen has been researching and developing the use of Network Behavioral Analysis (NBA) capabilities in cyber defense. In 2006, and thru 2009, the Department of Homeland Security, Science and Technology, funded the creation of a NBA-based fusion prototype. Based on this work he has been invited to a number or workshops and symposiums including the 2009 National Cyber Leap Year, 2010 NATO R&T Cyber Defense Workshop in Estonia, and in 2011 Global Cyber-physical Supply Chain Summit in Wales. Owen holds a Masters in Computer Science from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.






Scott E. Augenbaum
Supervisory Special Agent, Cyber Crime Squad, Federal Bureau of Investigation


Bio
Scott Augenbaum is the Cyber Crime Supervisor in the FBI Memphis Division and manages the program in Nashville and Memphis with a staff of seven Special Agents. The FBI's Cyber Program covers computer intrusion investigations, online child exploitation, intellectual property rights and Internet fraud.
Scott started his career in the FBI in the New York Field Office in 1988 as a support employee in the Financial Management Section. In 1994, he went to the FBI Academy in Quantico, VA and became a Special Agent. His first office was the Albany, New York Field Office, Syracuse Resident Agency. He was assigned to work domestic terrorism, white collar crime and all computer crime investigations.
After September 11, 2001, Scott was appointed the Joint Terrorism Task Force Coordinator for the Syracuse Office. In December 2004, he was promoted to a Supervisory Special Agent at FBI headquarters in the Cyber Division. He was assigned to the Cyber Task Force Unit and was responsible for managing the resources of the FBI's 72 Cyber Task Forces throughout the United States. In addition, Scott was responsible for the management oversight of the Internet fraud and intellectual property rights program.






Tim Bailey
D/Chief, Cyber Integration, National Security Agency
Title of Talk: Social Networking and National Cyber Defense: What's the Connection?


Bio
Born in Sparta, Tennessee, Mr. Bailey began his professional career at the Oak Ridge, Tennessee, K-25 Plant as an instrumentation engineer working to implement the first uses of computers for the uranium enrichment process. Following a trip to California, he decided to relocate there, landing in the telecommunications sector with Ericsson Communications in Anaheim as a design engineer. After a number of years, the desire to get closer to home led Mr. Bailey to join the National Security Agency in Maryland. Over the past 27 years with the NSA, he has held positions as a design engineer, system engineer, intelligence analyst, staff officer, program manager and manager.
Mr. Bailey holds a BSEE from Tennessee Technological University and a MS in Technical Management from The Johns Hopkins University. As a related hobby, he has been a licensed amateur radio operator since high school.






Tom Pigg
Professor of Computer Information Systems, Jackson State Community College
Title of Talk: Critical Infrastructure and Automated Control Systems Security: A Strategy for Securing Against Cyber Attacks


Bio
Dr. Tom Pigg is Professor of Computer Information Systems at Jackson State Community College in Jackson Tennessee. His area of special interest is in internetworking infrastructure design and implementation, network security systems and the development of educational systems to enhance learning utilizing remote equipment access through virtualization, specifically in the area of the cyber security and digital forensics.
In addition, Tom serves as the Director for the Tennessee Cyber Security Education Consortium (CSEC) whose mission is to provide cyber security and digital forensics faculty development opportunities to community college faculty across the state. Over the past four years, he as conducted workshops that focus on Principles of Information Assurance, Network Security, Enterprise Security Management, Secure E-Commerce, Automation and Control Device Security and Digital Forensics.  The ultimate goal of these workshops is to assist community college faculty develop cyber security courses and programs at the two-year college level. CSEC is a multistate consortium that is funded by a National Science Foundation Advanced Technology Education Grant.
Dr. Pigg has an A.S. Degree from Los Angeles Metropolitan College, A.S Degree from Jackson State Community College, B.S. Degree in Mathematics from Lambuth University, M.S. Degree in Curriculum and Instruction from the University of Memphis, and Ed.D. in Higher Education at the University of Memphis.






Randy Walker, Oak Ridge National Laboratory
Title of Talk: A Resource Tracking System for Loosely Coupled Networks - Connecting the dots throughout different proprietary IT systems in the Supply Chain with emphasis on tracking security sensitive materials in the supply chain.


Randy Walker is the Transportation Programs Manager for the Computational Sciences and Engineering Division at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory. He received his Bachelor of Science in Logistics and Transportation from The University of Tennessee. He has worked as a systems engineer, instructor, operations manager and program manager during his career in areas such as transportation of hazardous materials and their regulations; compliance in the packaging and transportation of radioactive materials; rail, air, motor and intermodal freight economics and pricing; and transportation program development with DOE, EPA, DOT, DHS, DoD, and the commercial defense contractor sector. He is internationally recognized as a subject matter expert in the development of technology-driven security and safety policies for the international hazardous materials supply chain.






Andrew Neel
Technical Advisor for Perimeter Security, FedEx

Title of Talk: Security Challenges for Enterprises


Bio
Andrew Neel joined FedEx's Information Security Research and Development team in 2002 to provide innovative solutions for emerging security challenges within enterprise environments. In 2006, he moved FedEx's Perimeter Security team to develop enterprise solutions for securing the perimeter networks for FedEx's global presence. Andrew earned his PhD in computer science from The University of Memphis in 2007 and has over a decade of information security experience.






David Dampier
Director, Center for Computer Security Research; Director, National Forensics Training Center, Mississippi State University
Title of Talk: Workforce training in Digital Forensics: Law Enforcement and Wounded Warriors


Bio
Dr. Dave Dampier currently serves as Associate Professor of Computer Science & Engineering at Mississippi State University and Director of both the Center for Computer Security Research and the National Forensics Training Center.  Prior to joining MSU in 2000, Dr. Dampier spent 20 years active duty as an Army Ordnance and Acquisition Corps Officer.  He has a B.S. Degree in Mathematics from the University of Texas at El Paso, and M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Computer Science from the Naval Postgraduate School. His research interests are in Digital Forensics, Computer Security, and Formal Methods for Software Evolution.






Jeff Shipley
Manager of IntelliShield Security Research & Operations, Cisco Security Intelligence Operations
Title of Talk: Emerging Threats


Bio
Jeff Shipley is the manager of the IntelliShield Security Research & Operations analyst team for Cisco Security Intelligence Operations, which is responsible for the collection, research, analysis, tracking, trending, and reporting of security vulnerabilities, threats and events through the IntelliShield service used both internally at Cisco and externally by customers.  Jeff is also responsible for coordinating activity across the Cisco Security Intelligence Operations, and is a core editor and subject matter expert producing the Cisco Cyber Risk Reports, and Cisco Annual Security Reports.  Prior to joining Cisco in 2006, Jeff served with the U.S. Army in Security and Intelligence, Special Operations, and the National Security Agency for 20 years, retiring in 1999, and has worked in the private IT sector as a Unix system and network administrator, consultant, security engineer and analyst, and the Director of Security Intelligence with TruSecure and ICSA Labs.  Jeff is a CISSP and GIAC GCIH, member of the ISSA, Infragard, ISC2, IT-ISAC Technical Committee and the CVE Numbering Authority for Cisco.





Questions?
University of Memphis Cyber Expo
(901) 678-5435
cyberexpo@memphis.edu

Thank you for your support!


  
  

Copyright © 2011 by the University of Memphis. Important Notice
  

 
 
 



http://cybersummit.memphis.edu/2011
