http://www.memphis.edu/cs/news_and_events/index.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Computer Science
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Future Students
                        Current Students
                        Research
                        People
                        Contact
                     
                     
                        
                           News & Events
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Department News
                                 Upcoming Events
                                 Colloquium
                                 Undergraduate Colloquium
                                 Newsletters
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Computer Science
                              	
                        
                           	News & Events
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Department News
                     
                     2016
                     
                     Assistant Professor Position Available The Department is seeking candidates for an Assistant Professor position beginning
                        Fall 2017.
                     
                     
                     FSE 2016 Paper Receives ACM SIGSOFT Award PhD student Austin Henley and Prof. Scott Fleming are authors on a paper that received
                        the ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished Paper Award (DPA) at FSE 2016.
                     
                     
                     Department Hosts Python Data Science Workshop From Oct. 14-16, the Department hosted a workshop on Python programming for data science.
                     
                     
                     Instructor Position Available Applications are invited for an instructor position beginning Fall 2017.
                     
                     
                     U of M Will Share $3M DHS/FEMA Cyber Security Grant The National Cybersecurity Preparedness Consortium (NCPC), of which the U of M's Center
                        for Information Assurance (CfIA) is a core member, has been awarded a $3M grant from
                        DHS/FEMA to develop and deliver cyber security training as part of the Continuing
                        Training Grants (CTG) program.
                     
                     
                     Two Papers Accepted at COLING 2016 Prof. Deepak Venugopal has had two papers accepted at COLING 2016, one of the premier
                        conferences on natural language processing.
                     
                     
                     U of M to Lead $4M NSF Cyberinfrastructure Project Prof. Santosh Kumar is the PI on a new $4M data cyberinfrastructure grant from NSF.
                     
                     
                     Honorable Mention at ACM UbiComp 2016 PhD student Nazir Saleheen received an Honorable Mention at ACM UbiComp 2016.
                     
                     
                     Best Paper Award at VL/HCC 2016 PhD student Austin Henley and Prof. Scott Fleming won the Best Paper Award at VL/HCC
                        2016.
                     
                     
                     CS Faculty Recognized at U of M General Faculty Meeting Three Computer Science faculty were recognized at the U of M general faculty meeting
                        held on August 18.
                     
                     
                     Fall 2016 New Faculty The Department is welcoming three new faculty members for the Fall 2016 semester.
                     
                     
                     Papers Accepted at CHI, FSE, ICML, UAI, UbiComp The Department's students and faculty have had papers accepted at several top-tier
                        conferences this year.
                     
                     
                     Names in the News: Prof. Santosh Kumar Prof. Santosh Kumar has had his work with the mHealth Systems Lab featured in several
                        recent news articles.
                     
                     
                     Prof. Dasgupta on WMC Action News 5 Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta was featured on a WMC Action News 5 segment this morning,
                        publicizing the upcoming GenCyber Boot Camp for middle-school students.
                     
                     
                     Spring 2016 CS Newsletter The Spring 2016 CS Newsletter is now available!
                     
                     
                     2016 Summer Camps The Department will be hosting several activities this summer for middle and high
                        school students.
                     
                     
                     Prof. Lu Receives Early Career Research Award Prof. Zhuo Lu has been selected as a recipient of the 2016 Early Career Research Award
                        from the U of M College of Arts and Sciences.
                     
                     
                     Strengthening Communities Grant with CodeCrew The Department has been awarded a Strengthening Communities Initiative capacity building
                        grant with community partner CodeCrew to develop a game design curriculum for high
                        school students.
                     
                     
                     Undergraduate Herve Aniglo Wins AMIS techUp! Competition Undergraduate student Herve Aniglo won the Association for Management Information
                        Systems (AMIS) 1st Annual techUP! Competition, held on April 9 at the U of M's Fogelman
                        College of Business and Economics.
                     
                     
                     Instructor Position Available The Department is seeking applicants for an Instructor of Computer Science position.
                        The instructor will teach undergraduate/graduate courses, participate in curriculum
                        development and improvement, and advise students.
                     
                     
                     2016 CS Research Day Congratulations to the winners of the oral and poster presentations at the 12th Annual
                        Computer Science Research Day.
                     
                     
                     CS Students Win at University Research Forum Computer Science students have continued the tradition of doing very well in this
                        year's University Research Forum, winning both 1st and 2nd place in the Math and Computer
                        Science poster session.
                     
                     
                     Undergraduate Student Success in Cyber Security Research The Center for Information Assurance (CfIA) at the University of Memphis, under the
                        leadership of Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta, is at the forefront of cyber security research,
                        education, and outreach in the state of Tennessee and the Mid-South region.
                     
                     
                     Research Assistant Professor Position Available The Department has an opening for a non-tenure track Research Assistant Professor
                        with responsibilities for conducting research and developing research proposals in
                        the area of information assurance and cyber security and also engaging in collaborative
                        efforts.
                     
                     
                     Prof. Dasgupta Featured on FOX13 Memphis Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta, director of the Center for Information Assurance, was featured
                        on a Feb. 19 FOX13 Memphis news story about security threats in mobile software.
                     
                     
                     Intel Visiting Campus on Feb. 26 Intel Corp. will be visiting campus on Feb. 26 to interview candidates for internship
                        positions. Positions are available at bachelor's, master's, and doctoral levels.
                     
                     
                     Fall 2015 CS Newsletter The Fall 2015 CS Newsletter is now available!
                     
                     
                     2015
                     
                     Prof. Rus Wins Best Paper Award at ICSLE 2015 Prof. Vasile Rus and postdoc Dr. Dan Stefanescu won the Best Paper Award at the 2nd
                        International Conference on Smart Learning Environments (ICSLE 2015) for their paper
                        entitled "Towards Non-Intrusive Assessment in Dialogue-based Intelligent Tutoring
                        Systems."
                     
                     
                     Outreach Events Attract Local Students The Department recently held several large outreach events for local students: a
                        reception for newly-admitted freshmen, the annual CS Open House, a 100 Girls of Code
                        workshop, and an Hour of Code event.
                     
                     
                     CS Faculty Awarded CAST Cyber Security Grants Several CS faculty have received research grants from the FedEx Institute of Technology's
                        Cluster to Advance cyber Security and Testing (CAST), an interdisciplinary group of
                        campus experts on cyber security and systems testing.
                     
                     
                     CfIA Receives Cyber Security Training Grant from FEMA The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded a 2015 Continuing Training
                        Grant of $3 million for cyber security training to the National Cybersecurity Preparedness
                        Consortium (NCPC). The project will be led by the University of Arkansas Criminal
                        Justice Institute; the University of Memphis Center for Information Assurance (CfIA)
                        will collaborate on the project as a core member of the consortium.
                     
                     
                     Student Team Wins 2nd Place at Cyber Defense Competition A team of four Computer Science students recently won second place in the prestigious
                        CANSec Cyber Defense Competition, held in Little Rock on Oct. 24.
                     
                     
                     Undergraduates Win NSBE Hackathon Undergraduate students Herve Aniglo and Kareem Dasilva received 1st place in the first
                        annual hackathon at the National Society of Black Engineers Region 3 Fall Regional
                        Conference.
                     
                     
                     CS Alumnus Tim Whitehorn to Speak at Entrepreneurs Lunch Tim Whitehorn, an alumnus of the Department's undergraduate program, will speak at
                        the Crews Center for Entrepreneurship's lunch on Wed., Oct. 28.
                     
                     
                     CS Names in the News Prof. Santosh Kumar and alumnus Dr. Sidney D'Mello were recently featured in online
                        news articles.
                     
                     
                     Assistant/Associate Professor Positions Available The Department is seeking candidates for multiple Assistant/Associate Professor positions
                        beginning Fall 2016, pending availability of funds.
                     
                     
                     mHealth Lab Has Three Papers Accepted at UbiComp The Mobile Health Systems Lab has had three full papers accepted to this year's prestigious
                        ACM UbiComp conference.
                     
                     
                     Prof. Kumar Named Chair of Excellence Prof. Santosh Kumar has been named the Lillian & Morrie Moss Chair of Excellence
                        in Computer Science. Authorized by the Tennessee General Assembly in March, this is
                        the first state-endowed chair of excellence in computer science to be established
                        in Tennessee.
                     
                     
                     Over $1.8M in New Grants for 2015 The Department has about $1.87 million in new grant funding for the 2015 academic
                        year.
                     
                     
                     CS Team Wins SemEval-2015 Semantic Textual Similarity Competition A team from Prof. Vasile Rus's Language and Information Processing Lab has won the
                        semantic textual similarity competition at SemEval-2015, the premier forum for semantic
                        evaluation.
                     
                     Undergraduate Learning Center Positions Available
                     
                     The Department is looking for several strong undergraduate students to support instruction
                        of our undergraduate courses beginning in the Fall 2015 semester.
                     
                     
                     Research Assistant Professor Position Available The Department is seeking a Research Assistant Professor to work with the MD2K Center
                        of Excellence.
                     
                     
                     Creative Game Design Camp Attracts Local High School Students The Department held its first Creative Game Design Camp from June 1-5.
                     
                     
                     U of M Partners with 100 Girls of Code The U of M has become an official chapter of 100 Girls of Code, a national organization
                        started by the Tennessee Code Academy that aims to introduce more young women to computer
                        science and engineering from an early age.
                     
                     
                     CS Research Day Winners Winners for the 11th annual Computer Science Research Day held on April 3 have been
                        announced.
                     
                     
                     Prof. Fleming Receives Early Career Research Award Prof. Scott Fleming has been selected as a recipient of the 2015-2016 Early Career
                        Research Award from the U of M College of Arts and Sciences.
                     
                     
                     Undergraduates Participate in CCSC Mid-South Programming Contest The U of M sent two teams of undergraduate students to the CCSC Mid-South programming
                        contest held at Hendrix College on April 10.
                     
                     
                     CS Students Win at University Research Forum Ph.D. candidates Abhijit Nag and Daqing Yun received 1st and 2nd place, respectively, in the Math/Computer Science category of
                        the poster presentation at the U of M's 27th Annual Student Research Forum held on
                        March 30.
                     
                     
                     U of M Receives Cyber Defense Research Designation The National Security Agency and the Department of Homeland Security have designated
                        the University of Memphis as a National Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense
                        Research (CAE/R) through academic year 2021.
                     
                     
                     Prof. Kumar Helping Shape Presidential Initiative Prof. Santosh Kumar is playing a key role in President Obama's recently announced
                        Precision Medicine Initiative.
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        News & Events
                        
                           
                              
                              Department News
                              Upcoming Events
                              Colloquium
                              Undergraduate Colloquium
                              Newsletters
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              News & Events
                              Weekly colloquium talks and other events
                           
                           
                              Career Opportunities
                              Internship information and job postings for students
                           
                           
                              Degree Programs
                              Information on our degree and certificate programs
                           
                           
                              Courses
                              Recent syllabi for our courses
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/26/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/cs/news_and_events/index.php
