http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/programs/graduatecertificates.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate School
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Future Students
                        Current Students
                        Faculty/Staff
                        Programs
                        Events
                        Resources
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Programs
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Graduate Certificate Programs
                                 Graduate School Contact Information
                                 Accelerated Bachelors/Master's Degrees
                                 Nationally Ranked Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate School 
                              	
                        
                              	Programs
                              	
                        Graduate Certificate Programs 
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Graduate Certificate Programs
                     
                     Students enrolled in the Graduate Certificate programs listed below are eligible for
                        student loans.
                     
                     
                     African American Literature As we enter the opening decades of the twenty-first century, interest in African American
                        literary studies continues to flourish. By preparing students to teach African American
                        Literature and giving official recognition of preparation, the certificate program
                        helps graduates qualify for jobs both within the United States and abroad. Gainful Employment Disclosure .
                     
                     
                     Applied Lean Leadership This graduate certificate provides students with competitive knowledge and skills
                        for jobs in which Lean is practiced, and a cost-effective way to upgrade technical
                        skills in Lean techniques. The certificate is intended for the student who has a bachelor's
                        degree and who is currently working full-time in a production or service industry,
                        and is specifically interested in learning about Lean principles and practices. Based
                        on the Society of Manufacturing Engineers' "Lean Certification Body of Knowledge,"
                        a student who completes the certificate program will be expected to be able to pass
                        the SME/AME/Shingo prize, Lean Certification Exam at the Bronze level. Gainful Employment Disclosure
                     
                     Artist Diploma in Music The Artist Diploma is a certificate program providing concentrated post-baccalaureate
                        training for prospective professional musicians. Currently it is offered in voice
                        and violin; it involves lessons and recitals at the School of Music and an internship
                        at Opera Memphis (for singers) or the Memphis Symphony (for violinists). Gainful Employment Disclosure
                     
                     Autism Studies The purpose of the Graduate Certificate in Autism Studies is to provide practical
                        educational training to individuals who are presently working within healthcare, adult
                        disability and/or educational settings. Individuals completing this post baccalaureate
                        certificate program will be able to provide evidence-based decisions specific to the
                        treatment and education of people with ASD, design and implement highly specialized
                        evidence based instructional programs for people with ASD, and design and implement
                        common behavior management strategies shown to be effective for people with ASD.  Gainful Employment Disclosure .
                     
                     
                     Bioinformatics Bioinformatics is a rapidly growing interdisciplinary field which combines mathematical
                        and computational sciences with biology and/or medicine. The graduate certificate
                        program in Bioinformatics will enable students from unrelated scientific disciplines
                        to transition to a career in data sciences in commercial, academic or healthcare research
                        settings. Students will gain knowledge in applied statistics, statistical tools, computer
                        programming, data structures, algorithm design, molecular biology and genomics.
                     
                     
                     Business Information Assurance The primary purpose of this certificate program is to prepare participants to be able
                        to make effective decisions regarding information assurance strategies. Students will
                        become familiar with various methodologies for maintaining business continuity in
                        case of an attack or disaster and will become knowledgeable about policy development,
                        implementation techniques, employee awareness and training, assessment of effectiveness
                        of security programs, as well as various other factors that result in long-term managerial
                        effectiveness. Gainful Employment Disclosure
                     
                     Business Intelligence and Analytics The business analytics discipline has become very important in information systems
                        and industry, due to increased access to big data, unstructured and structured data,
                        and strategic business decision making. These increasingly complex decision making
                        capabilities lead directly to competitive advantage and increased profits. Thus, trained
                        business analysts with skills in addressing data management and business intelligence
                        and analytics are in high demand. The certificate program requires completion of 12
                        semester credit hours.  Gainful Employment Disclosure . 
                     
                     
                     Business Project Management This certificate satisfies a demand for business project management professionals
                        in our region without requiring addition resources. It also creates untapped research
                        opportunities and collaborations for our faculty with the project management community.  Gainful Employment Disclosure .
                     
                     
                     Career and College Counseling The certificate in College and Career Counseling is an online and field based post-degree
                        program designed to address contemporary issues related to career and college counseling
                        in schools. The certificate focuses on developing technical skills and expertise to
                        effectively prepare students to transition from high school to college or from high
                        school to vocational programs. The program is committed to addressing contemporary
                        issues influencing the field, by building awareness of social justice issues in the
                        college going process and utilizing student achievement data as a lever to design
                        programs that strategically target the achievement gap.  Gainful Employment Disclosure . 
                     
                     
                     Cognitive Science The primary objective of this certificate is to supply graduate students interested
                        in Cognitive Science with interdisciplinary training in the major fields of Cognitive
                        Science, Cognitive Psychology, Artificial Intelligence and Linguistics. The main focus
                        is to develop core competencies to support research in cognitive science as well as
                        applications in human-computer interaction, information systems, advertising and marketing,
                        and design. Gainful Employment Disclosure
                     
                     College Teaching (no longer accepting applications to this program) There are many who are qualified to teach in colleges today. But only few can say
                        they are quality teachers. A certificate in College Teaching equips Graduate Teaching
                        Assistants (GTAs) with the knowledge and skill in effective college teaching methods.
                        Gainful Employment Disclosure
                     
                     Community College Teaching & Leadership Studies show that over 60 percent of the nation's community college professionals
                        will reach retirement eligibility during the next 15 years. The Certificate in Community
                        College Teaching and Leadership is designed to prepare the next generation of community
                        college administrators and faculty. Gainful Employment Disclosure
                     
                     Cyber Security and Information Assurance This certificate program highlights important aspects of information security and
                        assurance technologies. The University of Memphis is designated by DHS and NSA as
                        a National Center of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance, and its IA courses
                        are accredited by the Committee for National Security Systems for Computer Security
                        standards 4011, 4012, and 4013. These security standards specify the minimum knowledge,
                        skills, and abilities required to fulfill the duties, respectively, of an Information
                        Systems Security Professional, Senior System Manager, and System Administrator. Gainful Employment Disclosure
                     
                     Data Science The goal of the Data Science certificate  is to help train a workforce of future data
                        scientists able to tackle the challenges and reap the promising benefits of the vast
                        quantities of data available today in all parts of the economy, society, and government.
                        At the end of the program, students will exhibit a deep understanding of how to manage
                        large volumes of data, discover patterns and make inferences from the data, use models
                        to make predictions about potential solutions, and quantify the reliability and effectiveness
                        of the outcomes.
                     
                     Disabilities Studies This certificate program provides training for professionals who have, or plan to
                        have, the opportunity to work with person who have disabilities. It will also provide
                        students with a comprehensive background on the physical, psychosocial, vocation and
                        legal issues that face persons with disabilities. Gainful Employment Disclosure
                     
                     Entrepreneurial Journalism The Entrepreneurial Journalism Certificate program prepares students to start their
                        own media-related businesses or bring innovation to legacy media organizations as
                        "intrapreneurs." The program emphasizes knowledge of business fundamentals, marketing,
                        advertising and public relations strategies for new businesses, and creating digital,
                        multimedia content for media products or promotions.  Gainful Employment Disclosure .
                     
                     
                     Faith and Health Faith and health have a long history of integration, especially in relation to providing
                        much needed care to underserved populations. There are instances of health needs influencing
                        faith based practices, while theological frameworks have a long history of influencing
                        health practices and providing care to those in need. Through collaboration with the
                        Church Health Center, this graduate certificate focuses on the intersection of faith
                        and health—providing students with knowledge and understanding of how these two key
                        areas influence one another in providing patient care. This certificate is ideal for
                        students interested in working within the medical field, within public health or faith-based
                        healthcare organizations, as well as similar professions. Consisting of 12 credit
                        hours, students will take part in two hybrid (in-class/on-line) courses and two practicum
                        courses (utilizing the Experiential Learning Credit; see www.memphis.edu/innovation/elc/experiential_learning.php ).
                     
                     
                     Family Nurse Practitioner The Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) Certificate program provides a formal program
                        of study for students who already have the Master of Science in Nursing degree and
                        are interested in taking the national certification exam to practice as a Family Nurse
                        Practitioner without requiring them to complete a second masters degree. Gainful Employment Disclosure
                     
                     Freight Transportation The transportation profession is facing a significant decline in its workforce due
                        to the increasing number of workers eligible for retirement. Studies indicate as much
                        as 50% of the public sector transportation workforce is now eligible for retirement.
                        According to US DOT "employers will need to hire 4.6 million new workers with 417,000
                        of these positions created as a direct result to increased demand on our transportation
                        systems". In addition, the number of students pursuing degrees in the transportation
                        engineering area (primarily through civil engineering) continues to decline, and the
                        production of graduates is not keeping pace with the demand for skilled workers in
                        this area. The Graduate Certificate in Freight Transportation will enable individuals
                        with science or engineering bachelor's degrees to expand their analytical, practical,
                        and problem-solving skills in the area of freight transportation (e.g., supply chain
                        and logistics, maritime transportation, rail transportation). The certificate will
                        also enable them to transition and pursue advanced degrees (Master's or Ph.D.).
                     
                     
                     Geographic Information Systems The GIS Certificate Program is for those with a Bachelor's degree in a relevant field,
                        and with an interest in using GIS as a problem-solving tool. The GIS Certificate gives
                        students an interdisciplinary perspective that allows them to integrate GIS skills
                        into their knowledge acquired in other disciplines; competitive skills and training
                        for jobs in which GIS skills are essential. Gainful Employment Disclosure
                     
                     Health Analytics The Certificate in Health Analytics is designed to provide students with core training
                        in health analytics, including skills in biostatistics, predictive modeling, text
                        mining, and advanced programming/data skills demanded by community and health care
                        institutions today. Offered by the School of Public Health, this Certificate requires
                        5 courses (15 hours) of graduate coursework. Students completing this certificate
                        program will be competitive for a wide number of positions in the health care field.
                     
                     Hospitality Management Specialist The Hospitality Specialist Graduate Certificate is designed to addresses the increasing
                        complexity of operating in globalized hotel, foodservice or travel industries. Student
                        enrolled in this program will gain advanced knowledge and skills that will enhance
                        their professional qualifications in the discipline. By providing advanced knowledge
                        and skills in hospitality management to professional in the industry, practitioners
                        will gain the expertise in the use of tools that have the potential to increase revenues
                        and profits in the industry. Course material focuses on the core functional areas
                        necessary to work in the hotel industry, including operations, marketing, finance,
                        human resources, and strategic planning.
                     
                     Imaging and Signal Processing The graduate certificate program in Imaging and Signal Processing is intended to provide
                        students and practicing professionals the graduate background material to further
                        their careers in this important area. The subject area is important to many application
                        areas, but biomedical, sensing and signaling for commercial and defense, and information
                        technology applications are of particular interest. The program combines traditional
                        signal processing topics with optics and imaging, as well as computer vision, pattern
                        recognition, and multimedia processing. Computer programming simulation and analysis
                        are emphasized. In addition, the courses in the program are core courses for the Masters
                        degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering, and thus, the certificate is also a
                        portal to that degree.  Gainful Employment Disclosure .
                     
                     
                     Instructional Design and Technology Computers are essential in today's classrooms. Teachers who know how to operate them
                        are in the highest demand. Graduates completing this certificate learn to make the
                        most effective use of technology in classrooms, K-12, as well as serve as consultants
                        to faculty members and school administrators. Gainful Employment Disclosure
                     
                     Liberal Studies The graduate certificate in Liberal Studies is intended to present graduate background
                        material for those seeking personal enrichment provided by liberal learning and the
                        development of those intellectual skills necessary to lifelong learning--critical
                        reading, scholarly writing, and the art of interpersonal communication. The certificate
                        requires 15 hours of graduate coursework. Gainful Employment Disclosure . 
                     
                     
                     Literacy Leadership and Coaching The goals of this certificate program are: 1) to offer literacy teachers education
                        beyond the state certified reading endorsement to prepare them to address the leadership
                        needs across the region and beyond, 2) to provide an accelerated cohort-driven program
                        of study that will enable students to receive a Certificate in Literacy Leadership
                        and Coaching in a timely and meaningful fashion, and 3) to give official recognition
                        of an expertise in literacy leadership to help students qualify for jobs both within
                        and outside the United States. Gainful Employment Disclosure
                     
                     Local Government Management The objectives of the certificate program are: (1) Help working professionals upgrade
                        their knowledge and skills of local government and theory. (2) Empower graduates of
                        the program to succeed as effective and ethical leaders in local government administration.
                        (3) Enhance the analytical and management capabilities of individuals who are responsible
                        for the provision of varied services directly to citizens. Gainful Employment Disclosure
                     
                     Museum Studies Museums are a vibrant sector of our communities, with new and innovative ones opening
                        every year. The Interdisciplinary Graduate Certificate Program in Museum Studies is
                        designed to give scholars enrolled in graduate study in art, anthropology, history,
                        public administration, business, and education, or who hold graduate degrees in such
                        disciplines, the skills to enter museum professions. Gainful Employment Disclosure
                     
                     Nursing Administration The Post Master's Certificate in Nursing Administration provides a formal program
                        of study for students who hold a Master of Science in Nursing degree in another specialty.
                        The program provides them with content that provides a strong foundation in complex
                        systems, organizational theory, financial management, and leadership practice. 
                     
                     Nursing Education The Nursing Education Certificate program provides a formal program of study for masters
                        prepared nurses interested in obtaining a credential allowing them to teach in Schools
                        of Nursing. The program provides them with the content necessary to teach nursing
                        students in a specific area of nursing. Once students complete the certificate, they
                        are eligible to sit for the national certification exam in this area. This certificate
                        is the optimal way for those already holding a masters degree and desiring this specialization
                        to gain marketability without having to complete an entire second master's degree. 
                     
                     
                     Packaging Engineering The graduate certificate in Packaging Engineering is intended for students who possess
                        a bachelor's degree and are currently working full time or applying to graduate schools,
                        and for graduate students who are specifically interested in learning more about packaging
                        engineering. The Packaging Engineering Certificate Program will provide students with
                        competitive knowledge and skills for jobs in which packaging is practiced, a small
                        class size ensuring personal attention, and interaction with local packaging industry
                        community.  Gainful Employment Disclosure.
                     
                     Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership Every employee and volunteer in a nonprofit organization plays a role in meeting the
                        philanthropic goals and charitable purposes of the organization. The Certificate in
                        Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership is designed to meet the needs of these employees
                        and volunteers looking for advanced study in the theory and practice of nonprofit
                        administration. Ideal for nonprofit professionals, community volunteer leaders and
                        active philanthropists, the Certificate is offered by the Division of Public and Nonprofit
                        Administration. The Certificate requires 15 hours of graduate coursework, all available
                        in both on-campus and online formats. Gainful Employment Disclosure
                     
                     Population Health This graduate Certificate in Population Health provides core competency in biostatistics,
                        epidemiology, environmental health, health policy, and social/behavioral sciences
                        necessary to improve health on a large scale. With the Affordable Care Act, hospitals
                        are incentivized to improve community health so as not to incur repeat hospitalizations,
                        and this certificate is particularly relevant for those in the fields of health care
                        and public health. The Certificate, offered by the School of Public Health, requires
                        5 courses (15 hours) of graduate coursework, all available in both on-campus and online
                        formats and may be completed in 2 semesters. All 5 courses will apply to the Master
                        of Public Health (MPH) degree should students wish to pursue a graduate degree. 
                     
                     Qualitative Studies in Education The Graduate Certificate in Qualitative Studies in Educational Research is intended
                        to prepare students enrolled in any Doctoral program in the School of Education, Health
                        and Human Sciences and throughout the University to design, conduct, publish, and
                        teach rigorous qualitative research. The current academic climate has seen a paradigm
                        shift from a strict focus on objectivist quantitative research to a broader focus
                        on constructionist/subjectivist qualitative research methodologies. Recognizing this
                        shift, our program offers students the appropriate coursework and mentorship to advance
                        their knowledge and application of qualitative research traditions/methodologies such
                        as ethnography, case study, narrative inquiry, post-structural approaches, and creative
                        analytic practices.  Gainful Employment Disclosure .
                     
                     
                     Quantitative Studies in Educational Research The certificate program is designed to provide students with formalized training in
                        quantitative methods, including research design, univariate and multivariate statistical
                        analysis, and advanced training in statistical software and programming.  Gainful Employment Disclosure .
                     
                     
                     School Library Information Specialist The purpose of the Graduate Certificate for School Library Information Specialists
                        is to provide preparation and practical training to individuals who are presently
                        teaching or are interested in obtaining teacher licensure with a specialization/endorsement
                        as a School Library Information Specialist (TN DOE endorsement for Library Information
                        Specialist PreK-12 - 473).
                     
                     Software Testing Software testing is a critical discipline as organizations increasingly rely on information
                        systems that are becoming increasingly more complex. This certificate prepares students
                        to both manage and participate in testing at all stages of the software development
                        process. The topics and techniques are applicable to testing all types of software.
                        Gainful Employment Disclosure
                     
                     STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) Teacher Leadership The goal of the certificate program in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and
                        Mathematics) Teacher Leadership is to develop the knowledge and skills of secondary
                        mathematics, science, and engineering teachers who are currently teaching in local
                        area schools. The coursework is designed to promote in-depth understanding of current
                        standards and instructional practices with a particular focus on building teacher
                        leaders in STEM education.  Gainful Employment Disclosure .
                     
                     
                     Strategic Leadership The Graduate Certificate in Strategic Leadership is a 12-hour program (four courses)
                        designed to provide theoretical and practical knowledge to enhance leadership skills.
                        The program is specifically designed for the working professional.
                     
                     Teaching English as a Second Language We live in a global community, where different languages and cultures interact on
                        a daily basis. The TESL Certificate trains students how to teach English to speakers
                        of different languages. And such training also helps students qualify for jobs within
                        and outside the United States. Gainful Employment Disclosure
                     
                     Teaching in Diverse School Populations  (no longer accepting applications to this program) The purpose of the Graduate Certificate in Teaching in Diverse School Populations
                        is to provide practical and effective professional development for professionals who
                        are presently working with students from diverse backgrounds including school administrators
                        (principals, assistant principals, curriculum facilitators, central office personnel,
                        counselors) and teachers in schools in the state of Tennessee. Individuals completing
                        this post baccalaureate certificate program will be able to provide evidence-based
                        decisions specific to effective teaching and learning environments for students from
                        diverse student populations, as well as design and implement highly specialized evidence
                        based instructional programs for students from diverse populations enrolled in classrooms
                        in the state.
                     
                     Teacher Leader The Teacher Leader Certificate Program at the University of Memphis is designed to
                        prepare practitioners in the field of education to develop leadership skills to support
                        instruction at the school level. This four course certificate can be completed in
                        three semesters. Specific focus will be placed upon developing leadership styles,
                        using data to improve student learning and developing instructional skills to support
                        colleagues.
                     
                     Urban Education The 12 credit-hour Graduate Certificate in Urban Education offers an advanced program
                        of study in the expansive and distinct historical and contemporary knowledge, scholarship,
                        and practical issues related to instruction and curriculum leadership in an urban
                        educational context that has a diverse population, is geographically bounded, and
                        is unique in its political, economic and cultural history, relationships, and interactions.
                        The program of study includes a 3 credit-hour workshop that allows the student to
                        explore an issue individually through independent study, online engagement, and engaged
                        scholarship. Gainful Employment Disclosure
                     
                     Women's and Gender Studies Women's roles have changed remarkably over the past 50 years. The Certificate of Women's
                        Studies gives students competitive skills and training for jobs in which the analysis
                        of gender and race is essential, as well as education needed for entrance in selected
                        PhD programs. Gainful Employment Disclosure
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Programs
                        
                           
                              
                              Graduate Certificate Programs
                              Graduate School Contact Information
                              Accelerated Bachelors/Master's Degrees
                              Nationally Ranked Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Need more information?
                              Sign up to receive more information about your program of interest. 
                           
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our programs.
                           
                           
                              Apply Now
                              Submit your application today.
                           
                           
                              Support Graduate Education
                              Your gifts make a difference!
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/programs/graduatecertificates.php
