http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/bus/acct.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                              	Degree Planning
                              	
                        Accountancy
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     School of Accountancy
                     
                     KENTON WALKER, PhD Director Room 200, Fogelman Admin Building 901.678.4569 kbwalker@memphis.edu
                     
                     ZABIHOLLAH (ZABI) REZAEE, PhD PhD Program Coordinator Room 216, Fogelman Admin Building 901. 678.4652 zrezaee@memphis.edu
                     
                      
                     
                     JAMES LUKAWITZ, PhD Master’s Program Coordinator Room 226, Fogelman Admin Building 901.678.3030 jlukawtz@memphis.edu
                     
                     Master's Handbook
                     
                     
                     
                     I. Objectives
                     
                     In the School of Accountancy, qualified students may work toward the following graduate
                        degrees: Master of Science with a concentration in Accounting, Data Analytics, or
                        Taxation; or PhD in Business Administration.
                     
                     
                     Program objectives are: (1) An understanding of the general context of business in
                        society, the ethical issues relevant to the accounting profession, and an appropriate
                        knowledge base for professional exams in accounting; (2) effective analytical, interpersonal,
                        and communication skills; (3) acquisition of technical accounting knowledge and skills
                        and related computer technology; and (4) ability to make significant professional
                        contributions by application of accounting knowledge and skills in profit and not-for-profit
                        organizations. NOTE: Every graduate student must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate
                        School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) and the program requirements of the degree being pursued.
                     
                     
                     II. General Admission for Master of Science Program
                     
                     Admission to the Master of Science degree program is granted to graduates of accredited
                        colleges and universities who show high promise of success in graduate business study.
                        Qualified candidates may enter the program at the beginning of any semester. The admission
                        requirements include satisfactory performance on undergraduate course work and a recent
                        (five years or less) GMAT admissions examination score. The GMAT is waived for candidates
                        who have received an undergraduate business degree with a grade point average of 3.5
                        or higher from an AACSB-accredited university (or from Christian Brothers University,
                        Lemoyne-Owen College, or Rhodes College) within five years prior to registering for
                        the University of Memphis Master’s program.
                     
                     
                     Five-year Professional Accounting Program. The GMAT is waived for University of Memphis
                        accounting majors who, when applying to the master of science program, have: (1) 30
                        hours or fewer remaining toward the accounting degree (or who have graduated within
                        the previous five years) and (2) have an undergraduate grade point average of 3.50
                        or higher. See the School of Accountancy Master’s Program Coordinator for details.
                     
                     
                     III. Master of Science Degree
                     
                     The 30-hour master’s program provides students with a corporate governance perspective
                        that emphasizes accounting in a service-oriented economy. Three concentrations within
                        the major are offered: accounting, accounting data analytics, and taxation.
                     
                     
                     The Master of Science degree requires:
                     
                     
                        
                        Prerequisites (courses indicated [C or better in each course] or their equivalents) of
                           ACCT 2010, Financial Accounting; ACCT 3110, Intermediate Accounting I; ACCT 3120,
                           Intermediate Accounting II; ACCT 4130, Intermediate Accounting III; ACCT 3310, Cost
                           Accounting; ACCT 3510, Individual Taxation; ACCT 4020 Accounting Systems; ACCT 4240,
                           Auditing; and SCMS 3711, Business Analytics.
                        
                        
                        A minimum of 30 semester hours of approved graduate courses. The 30 graduate credits
                           must include 21 hours in Accounting, with no more than 9 hours of 6000 level courses.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     A. General Requirements: 9 hours
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 ACCT 6520
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Taxation of Business Entities (3)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 ACCT 7120
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Strategic Accounting (3)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Select 1 course from the following: ACCT 7627, CPA Exam Preparation II 2 ACCT 7140, Financial Statement Analysis
                     
                     
                     B. Electives and Concentrations
                     
                     Electives: 18 hours Select 6 courses from the following to support desired career path: ACCT 7140, Financial Statement Analysis ACCT 6211, Advanced Financial Reporting ACCT 6241, Advanced Auditing 3 ACCT 7310, Advanced Cost 3 ACCT 7320, Controllership ACCT 7412, Entrepreneurship ACCT 7626, CPA Exam Preparation I 2
                     
                     Selecting the following as 2 of the 6 electives, together with ACCT 6520, constitutes
                              a tax concentration: ACCT 7510, Tax Research ACCT 7511, Taxation of Business Partnerships
                     
                     
                     Selecting 3 of the following within the 6 electives constitutes a Data Analytics concentration 4 : [You can earn a Graduate Certificate in Business Intelligence & Analytics by choosing
                        7605, 7190, 7620, 7621, and 7660.] MIS 7605, Business Database Systems or approved Accounting equivalent MIS 7190: Programming for Business or approved Accounting equivalent MIS 7620, Business Intelligence or approved Accounting equivalent MIS 7621: Data Analytics-Business or approved Accounting equivalent MIS 7660, Adv. Data Management or approved Accounting equivalent
                     
                     
                     Communication: 3 hours
                     
                     COMM 7110: Leadership/Communication or English 7807: Workshop: Government and Corporate
                        Writing
                     
                     
                     Note: ACCT courses numbered 70XX, e.g., 7050 and 7080, are not acceptable choices. An internship
                        does not count as credit toward the degree, but is reported on the transcript. There
                        is a limitation of three 6000-level courses for credit toward the MS degree.
                     
                     
                     1 Not required if you took Intermediate Accounting as a two-course sequence. 2 The two CPA courses (7626 and 7627) must be taken during the same spring semester.
                        You must be within 200 days of completing 150 credit hours. There is an additional
                        fee for Becker materials. 3 If you passed this course or its equivalent in an undergraduate program you must
                        select a different accounting elective instead. 4 For students without significant training in database systems, the first three of
                        these electives are recommended.
                     
                     
                     IV. PhD Program
                     
                     The goal of the Ph.D. concentration in Accounting is to develop the next generation
                        of committed scholars and excellent teachers by providing an active and stimulating
                        intellectual environment.  The Accounting Ph.D. program prepares doctoral students
                        for research-oriented academic positions at well-regarded universities and colleges
                        that demand solid teaching skills. We train doctoral students in classroom management
                        and the development of solid teaching skills.  Research in the School of Accountancy
                        focuses on economic based issues of importance to the accounting and business community
                        such as the impact of accounting information on capital market participants as well
                        as other firm stakeholders. 
                     
                     
                     Reflecting the research orientation of the faculty, development of research and academic
                        writing skills is continually emphasized throughout the Ph.D. program. The faculty
                        goal for matriculation is four years.  In seminars, doctoral students are encouraged
                        to start working on the framework for the dissertation early in the first year aligned
                        with research experts in the field.  In the first two years, students focus on their
                        coursework, are involved in a research workshop, and work closely with faculty on
                        a research project. Students take their comprehensive examinations at the beginning
                        of the third year. In their third and fourth years of study, students develop and
                        present their thesis proposal, then complete and defend the dissertation.
                     
                     
                     A major strength of the Ph.D. program in accounting is that its graduate faculty members
                        are student-oriented.  Research with faculty is encouraged and fostered in a highly
                        collegial environment.  We emphasize a close faculty-doctoral student interaction.
                        Only a few students are admitted into the doctoral program each year and they are
                        encouraged to work closely as a team cohort.    Doctoral students are involved in
                        all phases of faculty research, including co-authorship of research papers and presentations
                        at professional meetings. Most of the current doctoral students are CPAs with business
                        experience at the most prestigious corporate accounting and public accounting firms.
                     
                     
                     Our graduate faculty members have published books and received academic honors that
                        include chaired professorships.  The accounting faculty publish their research in
                        the top tier accounting journals such as The Accounting Review, Contemporary Accounting,
                        Research, Journal of Accounting and Economics as well as the highly regarded journals
                        of the American Accounting Association in sub-discipline fields, among others.
                     
                     
                     For admission, prerequisites, and program information, see the college website at:  http://www.memphis.edu/fcbephd/
                     
                     Click here for course descriptions
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/18/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/bus/acct.php
