http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/anth.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                              	Degree Planning
                              	
                        Anthropology
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Anthropology
                     
                     RUTHBETH FINERMAN, PhD Chair Room 316, Manning Hall 901.678.2080 KATHRYN HICKS, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Studies kahicks2@memphis.edu www.memphis.edu/anthropology
                     
                     
                     
                     I. The Department of Anthropology offers a Master of Arts degree in Anthropology with the purpose of training students
                        as competent practicing anthropologists to understand and address issues of social
                        inequality using anthropological theory and methods.
                     
                     
                     Focus areas include community development, cultural heritage and identity, museum
                        studies, health and health equity, environmental anthropology, food justice, economic
                        and social behavior, and humanitarianism. Each student will plan his or her program
                        in consultation with his or her major advisor.
                     
                     
                     A concentration is also available in Medical Anthropology. The concentration in Medical
                        Anthropology involves the application of theories and methods in medical anthropology
                        to better understand and address health disparities, health risks, and healthcare
                        systems.
                     
                     
                     Program objectives are that students will: (a) demonstrate advanced comprehension
                        of the holistic conceptual, theoretical and methodological foundations of anthropology;
                        (b) enhance and apply critical analysis and independent thought in relation to core
                        constructs, theories, and methods in anthropological works; (c) conceptualize, design,
                        and implement research on significant anthropological problems for building and strengthening
                        community wellbeing and quality of life; (d) enhance written and oral communication
                        of Anthropological themes and topics; and (e) implement professional training and
                        career opportunities in Anthropology through participation in professional activities
                        such as conference presentations, certification, workshops, and related activities. Students
                        must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued.
                     
                     
                     II. MA Degree Program
                     
                     A. Program Admission
                     
                     Admission to both the Graduate School and the department is required. To meet departmental
                        requirements for admission, students must submit a letter of intent, three letters
                        of recommendation, and complete the GRE. All applicants are encouraged to submit a
                        writing sample and those applying for a Graduate Assistantship are required to submit
                        a writing sample. In addition to their undergraduate academic record, applicants will
                        be considered on the basis of their GRE scores, recommendation letters, work experience
                        and career plans as described in the letter of intent. Except in exceptional circumstances,
                        students should have a 3.0 undergraduate record.
                     
                     
                     Admission to the program is not automatic upon meeting minimum departmental admission
                        requirements. Students are selected from the pool of qualified applicants and the
                        number selected depends on the availability of financial aid and adequate faculty
                        supervision. Applications submitted by January 31 will receive greater consideration
                        for funding. Applications received after May 1 will be considered on a case-by-case
                        basis. Applications for the spring semester should be submitted by November 30. Summer
                        school admission must be completed by May 1 for entrance into the Graduate School
                        and the departmental program. Late submissions may, in exceptional circumstances,
                        be considered on an individual basis, but will normally be deferred to the following
                        semester.
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        A total of 30 semester hours course-work plus satisfactory performance in a practicum
                           (Anthropology 7985—6 hours credit) and a practicum proseminar (Anthropology 7984-1
                           hour credit) for a total of 36 semester hours.
                        
                        
                        Satisfactory completion of the core curriculum (14 hours).
                        
                        For students in the Medical Anthropology concentration, satisfactory completion of
                           concentration-specific requirements (6 hours).
                           
                              
                              ANTH 6511 Medical Anthropology
                              
                              ANTH 7511 Medical Anthropology Theory and Practice
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        At least 70% of the program (i.e. 26 hours) must be taken at the 7000 level.
                        
                        Satisfactory performance on a comprehensive exam.
                        
                        The Master’s Degree in Anthropology is an interdisciplinary degree and students are
                           encouraged to take up to 9 semester hours of their work outside of the Department
                           of Anthropology, depending upon their area of interest and the nature of previous
                           work experience.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      III. Interdisciplinary Graduate Certificate Program in Museum Studies  (administered jointly by the Departments of Anthropology and Art)
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admission
                     
                     
                        
                        Students currently admitted to a graduate program at the U of M or another university
                           or students holding a graduate degree may apply for admission. For students enrolled
                           in a graduate program, a minimum GPA of 3.0 is required for admission. In rare instances,
                           a student who has completed an undergraduate degree program but who has not completed
                           a graduate degree nor been admitted to a graduate program may apply and will be considered
                           on an individual basis. All students not currently admitted to a graduate degree program
                           at the U of M must also apply to the Graduate School for admission as a non-degree
                           student. In order to continue in the program, students must maintain at least a 3.0
                           GPA.
                        
                        
                        To apply, students submit:
                           
                              
                              transcript of undergraduate degree program and transcripts of prior and current graduate
                                 study;
                              
                              
                              three letters of recommendation; and
                              
                              a letter describing reasons for wishing to take a graduate certificate in the area
                                 of museum studies and how the program corresponds with prior experience and anticipated
                                 career plans.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Inquiries can be directed to Dr. Leslie Luebbers, Director of the Art Museum ( lluebbrs@memphis.edu) .
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements
                     
                     A minimum of 18 credit hours is required.
                     
                     
                        
                        Six of the 18 hours will be met by completion of two core courses: ANTH/ARTH 7661
                           Museum Practices and ANTH/ARTH 7662 Museums and Committees.
                        
                        
                        Six elective hours will be selected in consultation with the Admissions and Advisory
                           Committee. Except for unique circumstances, students in the Anthropology and Art History
                           graduate programs must take at least three elective hours outside their major department.
                        
                        
                        Two three-hour internships (ANTH/ARTH 7669 Museum Internship) are required. Each internship
                           site will be chosen in consultation with the Admissions and Advisory Committee. For
                           those students working in a museum or other appropriate community site, three of the
                           internship hours may be replaced by a third elective course.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Click here for course descriptions
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/anth.php
