http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/ccfa/art.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                              	Degree Planning
                              	
                        Art
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Art
                     
                     RICHARD A. LOU, MFA Chair Room 200, Art & Communication Bldg 901.678.2217 NILES WALLACE, MFA Coordinator of Graduate Studies 901.678.4899 E-mail: nwallace@memphis.edu FRED ALBERTSON, PhD Graduate Advisor in Art History 901.678.2941 E-mail: falbrtsn@memphis.edu http://www.memphis.edu/art
                     
                     
                     
                     I. The Department of Art offers the Master of Arts degree in Art History with concentrations in Egyptian Art
                        and Archaeology, African American – African Diaspora Art Histories. African American
                        - African Diaspora Art Histories with concurrent Graduate Certificate in Museum Studies,
                        General Art History,and Museum Practices with concurrent Graduate Certificate in Museum
                        Studies; and the Master of Fine Arts with a major in Art and concentrations in Ceramics,
                        Graphic Design, Painting, Printmaking/Photography, or Sculpture. The Department of
                        Art is a fully accredited institutional member of the National Association of Schools
                        of Art and Design. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School
                        (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued.
                     
                     
                     II. MA Degree Program (Art History)
                     
                     Program objectives are to equip students with a knowledge in a specific field of art
                        and visual culture; to foster critical analysis of the major theories and documents
                        of art history as practical tool for individual research; to provide field opportunities
                        through museum internships or archaeological excavations; and to develop strategies
                        for the presentation of research in a clear and persuasive manner.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admission
                     
                     
                        
                        For Fall semester admission with assistantship, completed materials must be received
                           at the University by February 15. Applications received after April 1 cannot be guaranteed
                           consideration for the Fall semester. For Spring semester admission, the deadline is
                           November 1.
                        
                        
                        For the concentrations in African American – African Diaspora Art Histories and General
                           Art History, and Museum Practices, an undergraduate course in each of the major areas
                           of art history is desirable: American, ancient, medieval, renaissance, baroque, and
                           modern. For the concentration in Egyptian Art and Archaeology, an undergraduate major
                           in Egyptology, art history, anthropology, history, classical studies, or archaeology
                           is desirable. If, after evaluation of the student’s transcript, the art history faculty
                           perceives a deficiency in these areas, the student may be required to successfully
                           complete courses that will not count toward the Master of Arts degree.
                        
                        
                        A letter of intent, explaining the applicant’s motivation and objectives in pursuing
                           a graduate degree in art history.
                        
                        
                        A sample of undergraduate writing, preferably in art history.
                        
                        Two letters of recommendation, at least one of which should be from a college faculty
                           member who knows the student well.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     NOTE: Items A3, A4, and A5 should be sent directly to the Department of Art. Applications
                        forms for assistantships are also available from the Department of Art.
                     
                     
                     B. Prerequisites for Admission to Degree Candidacy
                     
                     The student shall apply for admission to degree candidacy upon the completion of 18
                        semester hours of graduate work. All candidacy requirements listed below must be satisfied
                        before registering for more than 18 hours of coursework at the graduate level. To
                        be approved for admission for candidacy, the student shall have:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        A grade point average of at least 3.0 on a 4.0 scale.
                        
                        Fulfilled all departmental prerequisite requirements.
                        
                        A planned degree program that meets all departmental and graduate school requirements. Pass Qualifying Examinations
                           
                           
                              
                              Foreign language translation exam: The language is usually French, German, Italian
                                 or another research language appropriate to the student's field of study, to be approved
                                 by the Graduate Academic Advisor. For a concentration in Egyptian Art and Archeology,
                                 French or German is preferred. The foreign language exam will consist of a 300-500
                                 word passage chosen by a faculty member and must be translated within a two-hour period.
                                 Two additional attempts are allowed.
                              
                              
                              Image Identification Exam: For the concentration in General Art History or African
                                 American – African Diaspora Art Histories, and Museum Practices, the examination covers
                                 works of art and visual culture from various regions and time periods, ancient to
                                 modern. For a concentration in Egyptian Art and Archaeology, the test covers key monuments
                                 of ancient Egyptian art and an entry-level examination in Middle Egyptian. Two additional
                                 attempts are allowed.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        The student must establish a history of satisfactory ratings in periodic review, a
                           semi-annual evaluation of each student’s general level of achievement by all area
                           graduate faculty. Two unsatisfactory ratings will result in dismissal from the program. 
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     C. Thesis Comprehensive Exam
                     
                     For students in all concentrations, a written exam will be given prior to the thesis
                        defense.
                     
                     
                     D. Program Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        A total of 30 semester hours for concentrations in Egyptian Art and Archaeology, African American - African Diaspora Art Histories. and General Art History; 33 semester hours
                           for concentrations in African American - African Diaspora Art Histories with concurrent
                           Graduate Certificate in Museum Studies and Museum Practices with concurrent Graduate Certificate
                           in Museum Studies.
                        
                        
                        The completion of ARTH 6123 or 6166 (see concentration requirements); ARTH 7130; and
                              ARTH 7996 thesis.
                        
                        Concentration requiremenls African American - African Diaspora Art Histories: ARTH 6183 or 6184: AATH 6185; 9 semester
                              hours selected from ARTH 7000 (may be repeated). 7140. 7150. and 7165 (may be repeated).
                              ARTH 6166 ls required. 6 semester hours of elective credit oulslde the field of art history
                              may be selected with the permission of the advisor. African American and African Diaspora Art Histories with Museum Studies Certificate:
                              ARTH 6183 or 6184: ARTH 6185: 6 semester hours from ARTH 7000. 7140. 7150. 7152. and/or 7165
                              (Students enrolled jn any seminars other than ARTH 7000 must conduct research dealing
                              with the African Diaspora In the Western wortd): ARTH 7661: ARTH 7662: 6 semester hours
                              of ARTH 7669. ARTH 6166 ls required. Egyptian Art and Archaeology: ARTH 6111. 6112 or 6113: ARTH 7115 and 7116. ARTH 6123 Is
                              required. 18 semester hours must be in the major area (ARTH) but outside of the required courses
                              (ARTH 6123. 7130. and 7996). 6 semester hours may be from outside the major department
                              (ARTH). General Art History: A minimum of 18 semester hours in art history (not including
                              the required ARTH 6123 or 6166, 7130 or any hours in ARTH 7996).Up to 6 hours of elective
                              credit outside the field of art history may be selected with the permission of the
                              advisor, including ARTH/ANTH 6381, 6660, 6661, 6662, 7661, and 7662. Museum Practices with Graduate Certificate In Museum Studies: 3 semester hours selected from
                           ARTH 6000-level (excludlng ARTH 6381. 6660. 6661. 6662): 3 semester hours of electives
                           determined through consultation with Museum Studies advisor: ARTH 7661: ARTH 7662:
                           6 semester hours of ARTH 7669: 6 hours drawn from ARTH 7120. 7121. 7125. 7140 through
                           7165. and 7660. NOTE: Students should consult with their academic advisor as to the required and recommended
                           courses appropriate to their area of concentration)
                        
                        
                        Twenty-one semester hours of 7000 level courses, including no more than 3 credit hours
                           for the thesis.
                        
                        
                        Satisfactory completion of the qualifying examinations
                        
                        Satisfactory completion of the Thesis Comprehensive Exam
                        
                        An acceptable thesis and oral defense. For concentrations combined with the Graduate Certificate
                           in Museum Studies. students will be responsible for developing and presenting a museum
                           project. which will include a writing component. NOTE: Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write the thesis.
                        
                        
                        Graduate Assistantships. Students with assistantships are required to take 9 hours
                           each semester. Assistantships are renewed based on the following:
                           
                              
                              Students must attain the required grade point average (3.4 in Egyptology, 3.0 in all
                                 other concentrations) and maintain a good record in their assistantship work assignments.
                              
                              
                              Students must make satisfactory progress toward the degree. In order to maintain satisfactory
                                 progress toward the degree during the first two semesters of study, the student must:
                                 
                                    
                                    pass the qualifying exam administered by the concentration, and
                                    
                                    take the foreign language translation exam.
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              Students who fail to successfully complete these examinations by May 1 of the Spring
                                 semester will not receive a high priority for assistantship renewal for a third semester
                                 of study.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     III. MFA Degree Program
                     
                     Program objectives are: (1) professional studio competence as exemplified by a significant
                        body of work; (2) professional competence in the dissemination of knowledge, including
                        logical and clear written and verbal expression of ideas in teaching contexts; and
                        (3) development of skills for critical and analytical reasoning as a practicing art
                        professional.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admission
                     
                     
                        
                        Portfolio: Approval by the area graduate committee of the applicant’s creative work
                           as specified below:
                           
                              
                              Graphic Design: 20-30 images in a powerpoint presentation, of original and/or printed
                                 works. Submission of original work may be requested.
                              
                              
                              Ceramics, Painting, Printmaking/ Photography, and Sculpture: 20-30 images in a powerpoint
                                 presentation, of work mainly in the applicant’s concentration area plus some slides
                                 of drawings and optional other media. Include additional views of 3D pieces. Submission
                                 of original work might be requested.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Letters of recommendation: Letters from two persons familiar with the applicant’s
                           creative activity but who are not members of the area graduate committee. If applying
                           for a teaching assistantship, each recommendation should contain reference to the
                           applicant’s teaching ability. Graphic design applicants are required to submit two
                           letters of reference.
                        
                        
                        Statement: A brief, personal statement of professional ambitions, intended concentration
                           area, other special creative interests, and outline of previous professional experience.
                           Please include current and permanent e-mail address, mailing address, and phone numbers.
                        
                        
                        Deadline: All University and Department of Art MFA application materials are due November
                           1 for Spring admission and February 15 for Fall admission and assistantship consideration.
                        
                        
                        Address: Send images, work, letters of recommendation, and statement to: Coordinator of Graduate Studies Department of Art The University of Memphis Memphis, Tennessee 38152
                        
                        
                        Deficiencies: Students may be admitted but required to complete undergraduate prerequisites
                           or otherwise correct deficiencies.
                        
                        
                        Students with assistantships are required to take 9 hours each semester, 3 of which
                           may be chosen from ART 7880 or 7881. Eligibility for assistantships is based on students
                           receiving a positive graduate review.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     B. Program Prerequisites
                     
                     
                        
                        Previous education and experience: Normally admission to the graduate program will
                           require an undergraduate major in the applicant’s concentration area. (See concentration
                           areas listed above.) A baccalaureate degree from an accredited institution is required
                           with not less than 70 semester hours of art, of which 12 hours should be in art history
                           and 18 hours (24 hours for Graphic Design) must be in the concentration studio courses.
                           Exceptions to the above requirements will be considered, however, when the portfolio
                           and professional experience warrant it.
                        
                        
                        Transfer credit: Any applicant who holds an MA degree in studio art from another institution
                           may transfer up to a maximum of 30 semester hours credit in art earned for that degree
                           to apply toward the MFA degree.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     C. Prerequisites for Admission to Degree Candidacy
                     
                     The student shall apply for admission to degree candidacy during the semester in which
                        the student completes 30 hours of graduate work. To be approved for admission to candidacy,
                        the student shall have:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        A grade point average of at least 3.0 on a 4.0 scale,
                        
                        Removed all departmental prerequisite requirements,
                        
                        A planned degree program that meets all departmental and graduate school requirements,
                           and
                        
                        
                        Established an overall history of satisfactory ratings in periodic review (a semi-annual
                           evaluation of each student’s general level of achievement by a committee of area graduate
                           faculty) and be approved for candidacy by that committee.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     D. Program Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        A total of 60 semester hours, including a thesis of 6 semester hours in the student’s
                           area of concentration.
                        
                        
                        A total of 36 semester hours of studio art, excluding the thesis, with a minimum of
                           24 semester hours in the student’s area of concentration.
                        
                        
                        Forty-two semester hours of 7000 level courses.
                        
                        A total of 9 semester hours in art history.
                        
                        A total of 9 semester hours of electives.
                        
                        Students with a concentration in graphic design are required to take at least 12 semester
                           hours of ART 7040 and 7240 combined.
                        
                        
                        Residency requirement for Graphic Design: The student must commit to full-time study
                           for a minimum of two successive semesters after admission to concentration to fulfill
                           the residency requirement.
                        
                        
                        Students from the concentrations of Ceramics, Painting, Photography, Printmaking,
                           and/or Sculpture must enroll in Art 7651 (1 hour) when also enrolled in a 6000 or
                           7000 level studio course.
                        
                        
                        Satisfactory grade on a written comprehensive examination, with follow-up oral examination
                           at option of examining committee.
                        
                        
                        Thesis (exhibition) to be approved by a faculty committee with the member under whom
                           the thesis was prepared as chair. For graphic design candidates, a written thesis
                           accompanied by appropriate visual documentation is required.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      IV. Interdisciplinary Graduate Certificate Program in Museum Studies (administered jointly by the Departments of Anthropology and Art).
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admission
                     
                     
                        
                        Students currently admitted to a graduate program at the U of M or another university
                           or students holding a graduate degree may apply for admission. For students enrolled
                           in a graduate program, a minimum GPA of 3.0 is required for admission. In rare instances,
                           a student who has completed an undergraduate degree program but who has not completed
                           a graduate degree nor been admitted to a graduate program may apply and will be considered
                           on an individual basis. All students not currently admitted to a graduate degree program
                           at the U of M must also apply to the Graduate School for admission as a non-degree
                           student. In order to continue in the program, students must maintain at least a 3.0
                           GPA.
                        
                        
                        To apply, students submit:
                           
                              
                              transcript of undergraduate degree program and transcripts of prior and current graduate
                                 study;
                              
                              
                              three letters of recommendation; and
                              
                              a letter describing reasons for wishing to take a graduate certificate in the area
                                 of museum studies and how the program corresponds with prior experience and anticipated
                                 career plans.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Inquiries can be directed to Dr. Leslie Luebbers, Director of the Art Museum ( lluebbrs@memphis.edu) .
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements
                     
                     A minimum of 18 credit hours is required.
                     
                     
                        
                        Six of the 18 hours will be met by completion of two core courses: ANTH/ARTH 7661
                           Museum Practices and ANTH/ARTH 7662 Museums and Communities.
                        
                        
                        Six elective hours will be selected in consultation with the Admissions and Advisory
                           Committee. Except for unique circumstances, students in the Anthropology and Art History
                           graduate programs must take at least three elective hours outside of their major department.
                        
                        
                        Two three-hour internships (ANTH/ARTH 7669 Museum Internship) are required. Each internship
                           site will be chosen in consultation with the Admissions and Advisory Committee. For
                           those students working in a museum or other appropriate community site, three of the
                           internship hours may be replaced by a third elective course.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Click here for course descriptions
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/ccfa/art.php
