http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/engr/biom.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                              	Degree Planning
                              	
                        Biomedical Engineering
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Biomedical Engineering
                     
                     EUGENE C. ECKSTEIN, PhD Chair Room 330, Engineering Technology 901.678.3733 JOEL D. BUMGARDNER, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Studies E-Mail: jbmgrdnr@memphis.edu AMY DEJONGH CURRY, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Studies E-Mail: adejongh@memphis.edu www.memphis.edu/bme/index.php
                     
                     
                     
                     I. The Department of Biomedical Engineering at The University of Memphis and the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and Biomedical
                        Engineering at The University of Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis, participate
                        in the Joint Graduate Program in Biomedical Engineering. The Joint Program offers
                        graduate programs leading to the degrees of Master of Science and Doctor of Philosophy
                        in Biomedical Engineering. Students may elect courses of study in the following areas:
                        biomaterials/drug delivery, biomechanics, biosensors, cardiopulmonary engineering,
                        cell and tissue engineering, electrophysiology, medical imaging, and orthopedic biomechanics.
                     
                     
                     All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School
                        (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) and the program requirements of the degree being pursued.
                     
                     
                     ENTRANCE EXAMINATION
                     
                     Applicants must have taken the ETS® GRE® revised General Test within five years of
                        the application date. The GRE revised General Test is a third-party evaluative tool
                        administered by the ETS (Educational Testing Service) organization. Test scores must
                        be sent directly to Graduate Admissions from the testing agency. The University of Memphis institution code number for reporting ETS scores is R-1459.
                     
                     TRANSCRIPTS and LETTERS OF RECOMMENDATION
                     
                     All college transcripts and test score information should also be sent directly to
                        Graduate Admissions. The Master of Science and Ph.D. programs in the Herff College
                        of Engineering require three (3) three letters of recommendation from separate evaluators
                        attesting to qualifications for successfully undertaking graduate studies. in order
                        to consider your application complete.
                     
                     
                     The evaluators/faculty members who you choose should be individuals that you believe
                        are best able to comment objectively on your intellectual and professional achievements
                        and potential.
                     
                     
                     We may call or write your recommenders for more information.
                     
                     INTERNATIONAL APPLICANTS
                     
                     Evaluation of Credentials: Applicants whose highest degree is from a foreign university must have their credentials
                        evaluated. Evaluations done by any credentialing agency listed on the National Association
                        of Credential Evaluation Services web site ( http://www.naces.org ) are acceptable. A course-by course report is required and must be sent directly to Graduate Admissions from the credentialing agency.
                     
                     
                     English Conditional Admission: International students are required to demonstrate a strong grasp of the English
                        language before admission into graduate programs. Conditional admission may be granted
                        depending on individual academic departmental policy. If English conditional admission
                        is offered, students will need to register for English skills assessment and take
                        instructional sessions (if required as a result of that assessment) through the University's
                        Intensive English for Internationals (IEI) program (www.memphis.edu/iei). Upon successful
                        completion of the requisite sessions, as determined by IEI, the student's English
                        skills will be considered up to standard and the TOEFL/IELTS requirement may be waived
                        depending on specific academic department policy. The student can then proceed into
                        their graduate academic program. Please note that in order to have a complete application
                        packet, students seeking English conditional admission will need to simultaneously
                        apply for the IEI program through the link above and to the Graduate School (http://www.memphis.edu/graduateadmissions).
                     
                     
                     Please note that a student cannot be a graduate assistant (GA) until she/he has been
                        fully admitted to the Biomedical Engineering graduate program. Questions can be directed
                        to the program's graduate coordinator. Students will pay IEI fees until they meet
                        the language criterion. If courses are taken outside of IEI, the student will be charged
                        additional tuition at the regular rate.
                     
                     
                     II. MS Degree Program
                     
                     Program objectives are: (1) ability to apply advanced knowledge of engineering principles,
                        physical and biological sciences and mathematics to the solution of practical engineering
                        problems in medicine and biology; (2) meet or exceed the needs and expectations of
                        public and private sector employers for MS graduates; and (3) preparation to pursue
                        additional advanced studies if so desired.
                     
                     
                     A. Admission Requirements
                     
                     In addition to meeting the minimum admission requirements of the two universities
                        and the Herff College of Engineering, applicants must meet the following criteria:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        An appropriate bachelor’s degree (biomedical, chemical, electrical, mechanical, or
                           others as defined by the Joint Program);
                        
                        
                        An undergraduate GPA of at least 3.00;
                        
                        Acceptable scores on the GRE.
                        
                        Applicants whose native language is other than English must score at least 550 (or
                           210 computer-based) on the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL).
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     These are the minimum program admission requirements. Meeting minimum requirements
                        does not guarantee admission into the Joint Program. Applicants are further advised
                        that the department reserves the right to deny some applications for admission because
                        of limited availability of faculty or physical facilities to accommodate the applicant’s
                        research interests. In unusual circumstances where the above admission requirements
                        cannot be met, an applicant may seek exceptions by contacting the Coordinator of Graduate
                        Studies for the Joint Program.
                     
                     
                     B. Graduation Requirements
                     
                     Students may elect to graduate from the Joint Program with a Master of Science in
                        Biomedical Engineering through either a thesis or a project option.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Thesis Option: Students must complete 30 credit hours, 21 hours of which must be 7000-level
                           or higher course work (or The University of Tennessee equivalent). All students are
                           required to take 6 credit hours in the life sciences area (BIOM 7004 and BIOM 7005),
                           6 credit hours in mathematics and its applications (BIOM 7101 and another course selected
                           from a list of mathematics courses approved by the Joint Program), 6 credit hours
                           of thesis, and 12 credit hours of engineering electives, of which one course must
                           be BIOM 7209 or BIOM 7105. Oral defense of the thesis to their graduate committee
                           and an oral exam are required. NOTE: Students electing to write a thesis should familiarize
                           themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write.
                        
                        
                        Project Option: Students will be required to complete 33 credit hours, 24 hours of
                           which must be 7000-level or higher course work (or The University of Tennessee equivalent).
                           All students are required to take 6 credit hours in the life sciences area (BIOM 7004
                           and BIOM 7005), 6 credit hours in mathematics and its applications (BIOM 7101 and
                           another course selected from a list of mathematics courses approved by the Joint Program),
                           and 18 credit hours of engineering electives, including BIOM 7209 and BIOM 7991. Oral
                           defense of the project to their graduate committee and a written comprehensive exam
                           are required.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     C. Retention Policy
                     
                     
                        
                        Students who have been admitted to the program on the condition that they complete
                           prerequisite course work must make satisfactory progress toward this goal each semester
                           of enrollment. Failure to make satisfactory progress may result in dismissal from
                           the program.
                        
                        
                        All students are required to maintain a grade point average (GPA) of at least 3.00.
                           Failure to maintain the minimum GPA is considered sufficient cause for being dismissed
                           from the program. In addition, a student whose GPA falls below 3.0 is ineligible for
                           a graduate assistantship.
                        
                        
                        Students will be permitted two (2) grades of 2.00 or less in courses taken at the
                           two universities. Students will be evaluated by the Joint Program faculty at the end
                           of the semester in which a third grade of 2.00 or lower is earned for possible dismissal
                           from the program.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     II. Accelerated BS/MS Program in Biomedical Engineering
                     
                     This program allows outstanding undergraduates in biomedical engineering or an approved
                        undergraduate discipline to begin the coursework for the Master of Science in Biomedical
                        Engineering during their senior year. Students are encouraged to begin planning to
                        enter the Accelerated BS/MS program early in their undergraduate career, in consultation
                        with an advisor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering. 
                     
                     
                     Working with the undergraduate and graduate academic coordinators, undergraduates
                        selected into this program begin a carefully tailored course of study that will allow
                        them to complete their BS degree while they also begin the coursework toward their
                        MS
                     
                     
                     To apply, students must have a minimum 3.25 grade point average, and must submit two
                        reference letters and a copy of their transcript to the Biomedical Engineering department.
                        Each applicant will complete an interview with the graduate academic coordinator in
                        biomedical engineering.
                     
                     
                     Students must also apply to the Graduate School for the accelerated BS/MS program,
                        which allows them to take graduate courses in biomedical engineering. To continue
                        in the program past the BS, students must apply for full admission into the Graduate
                        School and into the Biomedical Engineering department's MS program. 
                     
                     
                     Only in ABM programs, up to 9 hours of graduate course work may be applied to both
                        the undergraduate and graduate programs. However, any graduate coursework will not
                        apply to undergraduate GPA.
                     
                     
                     III. PhD Degree Program
                     
                     A. Admission Requirements
                     
                     See the beginning of the College section for admission, retention, and graduate requirements,
                        and program objectives.
                     
                     
                     B. Graduation Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        Students admitted to the PhD program with a masters degree must complete 48 credit
                           hours. This includes 6 credit hours in life sciences; 6 credit hours in mathematics
                           and its applications; 12 credit hours of engineering electives, including BIOM 8209
                           or BIOM 8105; and 24 credit hours of dissertation (BIOM 9000). NOTE: Students should
                           familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide .
                        
                        
                        Students admitted to the PhD program with a bachelors degree must complete 72 credit
                           hours. This includes 12 credit hours in life sciences; 12 credit hours in mathematics
                           and its applications; 24 credit hours of engineering electives, including BIOM 8209
                           and BIOM 8105; and 24 credit hours of dissertation (BIOM 9000).
                        
                        
                        All PhD students are required to complete a comprehensive examination with at least
                           a minimum passing score on the written portion and a satisfactory performance on the
                           oral portion of the exam. A second and final attempt to pass this examination may
                           be granted by the student’s advisory committee; failure to pass this exam will result
                           in dismissal from the program.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     C. Professional Development Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        Students must attend Joint Program weekly seminars as scheduled each semester while
                           enrolled as a full-time student.
                        
                        
                        Students must complete ethics and professional training offered by the Joint Program.
                        
                     
                     
                     Click here for course descriptions
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/engr/biom.php
