http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/bus/bit.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                              	Degree Planning
                              	
                        Business Information and Technology
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Business Information and Technology
                     
                     ROBIN POSTON, PhD Chair Room 301A, Fogelman Admin Building 901.678.5739
                     
                     SANDRA RICHARDSON Master's Program Coordinator Room 313, Fogelman College of Bus & Econ 901.678.4614 srchrdsn@memphis.edu 
                     
                     CHEN ZHANG, PhD PhD Program Coordinator Room 300, Fogelman Admin Building 901.678.5671 czhang12@memphis.edu
                     
                     
                     
                     I. In the Department of Business Information and Technology qualified students may work toward the Master of Science degree in Information Systems,
                        and the PhD degree in Business Administration with a concentration in Business Information
                        and Technology. NOTE: Every graduate student must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate
                        School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) and the program requirements of the degree being pursued.
                     
                     
                     II. MS in Information Systems
                     
                     A. Program Admission
                     
                     
                        
                        Satisfactory performance on the Graduate Management Admissions Test (GMAT) or Graduate
                           Record Exam (GRE).
                        
                        
                        Satisfactory undergraduate grade point average as evidenced by an official transcript
                           (evaluated by an agency such as WES if an international student).
                        
                        
                        Submit an application to the Graduate Admissions Office.
                        
                        International Students must submit scores on the TOEFL exam.
                        
                     
                     
                     B. Concentration Prerequisites
                     
                     For those students with a limited information systems background, the department requires
                        MIS 7060 and MIS 7070.
                     
                     
                     C. Experiential Learning Credit
                     
                     Students enrolled in the MS in IS program will be allowed to request a maximum of
                        six credit hours of experiential learning credit for the purposes of meeting their
                        degree requirements (the six credit hours will apply toward the required credit hours
                        needed to complete a concentration).This six credit hours of experiential learning
                        credit will be granted only for  students who have qualified, exceptional experience
                        that can be related to one or more courses in the degree program.
                     
                     
                     In order to request consideration for the credit hours, students must submit a portfolio
                        for review by following the guidelines of the Center for Teaching and Learning. For
                        more information about their guidelines, refer to the Center for Teaching and Learning's
                        Experiential Learning Credit website: ( http://www.memphis.edu/innovation/elc/portfoliodevelopment.php ).
                     
                     
                     III. PhD Program
                     
                     The PhD program in BIT at the University of Memphis aims at preparing students for
                        a successful academic career as scholars. The BIT department prides itself on maintaining
                        a supportive research and teaching atmosphere. PhD students are encouraged to actively
                        get involved in research with faculty right from the first semester. Our program nurtures
                        students' innate curiosity while providing them with mentoring and support to train
                        them for independent research and professional responsibilities.
                     
                     
                     BIT courses include topics such as information systems management, business database
                        systems, systems analysis and design, business intelligence, data communications and
                        networks, information assurance and data security.  In research seminars students
                        review the core topics in information systems, with an emphasis on current research.
                        Students also take four courses related to research methodology, as well as two courses
                        related to research in the field of information systems.
                     
                     
                     BIT faculty publishes applied and theoretical research in the top tier MIS academic
                        journals, focusing on the AIS-6 journals: MIS Quarterly, Information Systems Research, Journal of MIS, Journal of the AIS, European
                           Journal of Information Systems , and Information Systems Journal . Our faculty’s research spans multiple lines of inquiry including managerial, behavioral
                        and technical topics and we employ empirical approaches, modeling, experimental, qualitative,
                        design science and econometric methodologies.
                     
                     
                     Our PhD program in BIT benefits from a mix of junior faculty members complementing
                        our existing strong cadre of senior faculty. This brings opportunity for the students
                        to work in diverse research areas like information value, IS service quality, strategic
                        information management, outsourcing and the use of open source, system testing and
                        management, social networks, online consumer behavior, business value of IT, information
                        assurance management, global IS issues, knowledge management, technology in the supply
                        chain, healthcare IS, ethics and philosophy of IT, innovation & strategy, and IT leadership.
                     
                     
                     Our doctoral students actively participate in and benefit from the various initiatives
                        the department is involved in such as weekly MIS research colloquium, the Systems
                        Testing Excellence Program (STEP), and the Center for Innovation Technology Management. 
                     
                     
                     For admission, prerequisites, and program information, see the college website at:
                        http://www.memphis.edu/fcbephd/.
                     
                     IV. Graduate Certificate Program in Software Testing
                     
                     Software testing is a critical discipline as organizations increasingly rely on information
                        systems that are becoming increasingly more complex. This certificate prepares students
                        to both manage and participate in testing at all stages of the software development
                        process. The topics and techniques are applicable to testing all types of software.
                     
                     
                     A. Admissions Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        Same as College and University requirements.
                        
                        The certificate can be pursued concurrently with other graduate programs at the University.
                        
                        Non-degree seeking applicants must submit a brief (1-2 pages) statement that describes
                           educational and work experiences in business, including their background in software
                           testing. GMAT scores are not required. However, acceptance into the certificate program
                           is not an implied acceptance into any master’s degree program.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements: The following 4 courses must be satisfactorily completed for a total of 12 hours
                        of credit. MIS 7610, Systems Analysis and Design (3 hours) MIS 7655, Advanced Systems Analysis and Design (3 hours)* MIS 7681 Management of Software Testing (3 hours) MIS 7682, Software Testing Tools and Techniques (3 hours) *COMP 6081, Software Development, may be substituted for MIS 7655.
                     
                     
                     C. Graduation Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        The student must complete all 4 required courses with an average grade of B (3.0)
                           or higher, for a total of 12 credit hours.
                        
                        
                        In the semester of graduation, the student must submit an Apply to Graduate form to
                           the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to the College Director
                           of Graduate Studies by the deadline specified by the Graduate School.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     V. Graduate Certificate Program in Business Information Assurance
                     
                     The Business Information Assurance (BIA) certificate prepares students to perform
                        critical activities needed to properly manage an organization’s assets related to
                        a wide range of information security/privacy threats. Training related to effective
                        managerial methodologies has become increasingly important in planning for possible
                        breaches of security and handling resulting problems.
                     
                     
                     A. Admissions Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        Same as College and University requirements.
                        
                        The certificate can be pursued concurrently with other graduate programs at the University.
                        
                        Non-degree seeking graduate students may also pursue this certificate program of study.
                           To be approved for the program, these students must submit evidence of this non-degree-seeking
                           graduate student status, along with the completed application form, to the Department
                           of Business Information and Technology for review.
                        
                        
                        Acceptance into the certificate program is not an implied acceptance into any master’s
                           degree program.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements: This program requires completion of 12 semester credit hours, as follows:
                     
                     
                     Six hours (two courses) from this group:
                     
                     
                        
                        MIS 7455 – Cyber Ethics in Information Technology*
                        
                        MIS 7670 – Computer and Network Security
                        
                        ACCT 6241 – Auditing and Assurance
                        
                        ACCT 7241 – Internal Auditing
                        
                        *COMP 7900 – Cyber Ethics may be substituted for MIS 7455
                        
                     
                     
                     Six hours (two courses) from this group:
                     
                     
                        
                        MIS 7160 – Computer Hardware/System Software
                        
                        MIS 7615 – Data Communications Systems/Networks
                        
                        MIS 7650 - Global Information Technology 
                        
                        FIR 7155 - Global Financial Management
                        
                        ACCT 7420 – Accounting Databases/Systems
                        
                        CJUS 6180 – Corporate/White Collar Crime
                        
                     
                     
                     C. Graduation Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        To obtain the certificate, a student must complete four courses, with two selected
                           from the first group of courses and two selected from the second group courses, for
                           a total of 12 credit hours.
                        
                        
                        A minimum grade of B is required for each of the four courses.
                        
                        In the semester of graduation, the student must submit an Apply to Graduate form to
                           the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to the College Director
                           of Graduate Studies by the deadline specified by the Graduate School.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     VI. Graduate Certificate in Business Intelligence and Analytics The business analytics discipline has become very important in information systems
                        and industry, due to increased access to big data, unstructured and structured data,
                        and strategic business decision making. These increasingly complex decision making
                        capabilities lead directly to competitive advantage and increased profits. Thus, trained
                        business analysts with skills in addressing data management and business intelligence
                        and analytics are in high demand.
                     
                     A. Admission Requirements:  Same as College and University requirements.
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements: The following 4 courses must be satisfactorily completed for a total of 12 hours of
                        credit.
                     
                     
                     Three hours (one course) from this group:
                     
                     
                        
                        MIS 7190 Programing For Business
                        
                        PUBH 7156 SAS for Health Research
                        
                     
                     
                     Three hours (one course) from this group:
                     
                     
                        
                        MIS 7660 Advanced Data Management
                        
                        COMP 7116 Advanced Database Systems
                        
                     
                     
                     Three hours (one course) from this group: 
                     
                     
                        
                        MIS 7620 Business Intelligence
                        
                        COMP 7118 Topics in Data Mining
                        
                     
                     
                     Three hours
                     
                     
                        
                        MIS 7621 Data Analytics for Business
                        
                     
                     
                     C. Graduation Requirements:
                     
                     
                        
                        The student must complete all 4 required courses with an average grade of B (3.0)
                           or higher, for a total of 12 credit hours.
                        
                        
                        In the semester of graduation, the student must submit an Apply to Graduate form to
                           the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to the College Director
                           of Graduate Studies by the deadline specified by the Graduate School.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     VII. Graduate Certificate in Business Project Management
                     
                     Graduate certificate program in Business Project Management prepares individuals for
                        project management team work and to be project managers with specific emphasis on
                        the integration of information systems and business processes.  This certificate program
                        will address the importance of project management education and address the need for
                        trained professionals in project management.
                     
                     
                     The objectives of the certificate program include: Provide knowledge of the theoretical
                        and practical concepts of managing IT projects, Understand and be able to perform
                        project management activities, Understand and be able to use project management tools
                        and techniques, Understand the role of project managers in the modern organization,
                        Explore unique and particular challenges resulting from rapid technological change
                        in dynamic business environments, and Exploring the role of the IS business professional
                        in change management
                     
                     
                     A. Admissions Requirements:
                     
                     Same as College and University requirements.
                     
                     The certificate can be pursued concurrently with other graduate programs at the University.
                     
                     Non-degree seeking applicants must submit a brief (1-2 pages) statement that describes
                        educational and work experiences in business, including their background in project
                        management. GMAT and GRE scores are not required. However, acceptance into the certificate
                        program is not an implied acceptance into any master’s degree program.
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements:
                     
                     The following 4 courses must be satisfactorily completed for a total of 12 hours of
                        credit.
                     
                     
                     One course from this group:
                     
                     MIS 7605 – Business Database Systems
                     
                     COMP 7115 – Database Systems
                     
                     One course from this group:
                     
                     MIS 7610 – Systems Analysis and Design
                     
                     COMP 7012/8012 - Foundations of Software Engineering
                     
                     Both courses below:
                     
                     MIS 7671 – Project and Change Management
                     
                     MIS 7672 – Advanced Project Management
                     
                     C. Graduation Requirements:
                     
                     The student must complete all 4 required courses with an average grade of B (3.0)
                        or higher, for a total of 12 credit hours.
                     
                     
                     In the semester of graduation, the student must submit an Apply to Graduate form to
                        the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to the College Director
                        of Graduate Studies by the deadline specified by the Graduate School.
                     
                     
                     Click here for course descriptions
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/bus/bit.php
