http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/engr/civl.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                              	Degree Planning
                              	
                        Civil Engineering
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Civil Engineering
                     
                     SHAHRAM PEZESHK, PhD Chair Room 104, Engineering Science Building 901.678.2746 ROGER W. MEIER, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Studies E-Mail: rwmeier@memphis.edu www.memphis.edu/ce
                     
                     
                     
                     I. The department of Civil Engineering offers a graduate program leading to a Master of Science degree with a major in Civil
                        Engineering (concentrations in Engineering Seismology,   Environmental Engineering, Geotechnical Engineering, Structural Engineering, Transportation
                        Engineering, and Water Resources Engineering) and a PhD degree with a major in Engineering
                        (concentration in Civil Engineering).
                     
                     
                     Program objectives are: (1) ability to apply advanced knowledge of mathematics, physical
                        sciences, and engineering principles to the solution of practical engineering problems;
                        (2) meet or exceed the needs and expectations of public and private sector employers
                        for M.S. graduates; and (3) preparation to pursue additional advanced studies if so
                        desired.
                     
                     
                     All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School
                        (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) and the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. MS Degree Program
                     
                     A. Program Admission
                     
                     The Herff College of Engineering has established uniform admissions criteria for all
                        graduate programs. Exceptions to these requirements may be addressed by the Graduate
                        Admissions and Retention Committee of the department and must be approved by the Dean.
                     
                     
                     In addition to meeting the University minimum admission requirements, applicants must
                        have:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        a bachelors degree in engineering or a related science or mathematics program;
                        
                        an undergraduate GPA that is competitive for the students' bachelors program;
                        
                        an acceptable score on the verbal, quantitative, and analytic portions of the GRE;
                        
                        three (3) letters of recommendation from faculty members able to objectively comment
                           on your intellectual and professional achievements and potential.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     An applicant who lacks a civil engineering bachelors degree may be required to complete
                        undergraduate deficiency courses. If the number of deficiency courses is large, the
                        applicant may be required to complete an undergraduate degree in civil engineering
                        before seeking admission to the graduate program.
                     
                     
                     In addition to the above requirements, applicants whose native language is other than
                        English must have a competitive score on the Test of English as a Foreign Language
                        (TOEFL) or The International English Language Testing System (IELTS). Applicants whose
                        highest degree is from an international university may be required to have their credentials
                        (transcripts) evaluated. The department will accept evaluations done by any credentialing
                        agency listed on the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services web site
                        ( http://www.naces.org ). A course-by course report is required.
                     
                     
                     Applicants are advised that the stated admission requirements are minimum requirements.
                        Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission into the masters program.
                     
                     
                     English Conditional Admission: International students are required to demonstrate a strong grasp of the English
                        language before admission into the graduate program. English conditional admission
                        may be granted on a case-by-case basis. Students will need to register for an English
                        skills assessment and take instructional sessions (if required as a result of that
                        assessment) through the University's Intensive English for Internationals (IEI) program
                        ( www.memphis.edu/iei ). Upon successful completion of the requisite sessions, as determined by IEI, the
                        student's English skills will be considered up to standard and the TOEFL/IELTS requirement
                        may be waived. The student can then proceed into their graduate academic program.
                        Please note that in order to have a complete application packet, students seeking
                        English conditional admission will need to simultaneously apply for the IEI program
                        through the link above and to the Graduate School ( www.memphis.edu/graduateadmissions ). Please note that a student cannot be a graduate assistant (GA) until they have
                        been fully admitted and have begun their graduate academic program. Students will
                        pay IEI fees until they meet the language criterion. If courses are taken outside
                        of IEI, the student will be charged additional tuition at the regular rate.
                     
                     
                     B. Program Prerequisites Bachelor of Science Degree
                     
                     
                     C. Program Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        Thesis option: 30 credit hours total. Students electing the thesis option will be
                           required to complete an independent research project culminating in a master’s thesis.
                           Upon completion of the thesis, the student must successfully pass an oral examination
                           to assess mastery of the thesis topic and to evaluate the student’s knowledge in Civil
                           Engineering. NOTE: Students electing to write a thesis should familiarize themselves
                           with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write.
                        
                        
                        Non-thesis option: 33 credit hours total. Students electing the non-thesis option
                           must take CIVL 7001, 7012, and 7993. Upon completion of CIVL 7993, non-thesis students
                           must make an oral presentation of their project and pass a comprehensive examination.
                        
                        
                        A minimum of 18 hours of Civil Engineering course work at the 7000 level will be required
                           for all MS degree programs. No more than 9 hours of committee/advisor-approved course
                           work below the 7000 level will be allowed in any program of study. Classes taken outside
                           the department must be approved by the committee/advisor and must complement the student's
                           program of study in Civil Engineering.
                        
                        
                        Concentrations: Concentration may be made by selection of courses from the following
                           six areas: (No special concentration is required.)
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                              Environmental Engineering: 6140, 6143, 6144, 7140, 7141, 7142, 7143, 7144, 7145, 7146,
                                    7147, 7185, 7195, 7196, 7261, 7262, 7264, 7265, 7266, 7991, 7996.
                              
                              Geotechnical Engineering: 6152, 6155, 7132, 7133, 7135, 7137, 7138, 7139, 7182, 7991,
                                    7996.
                              
                              Structural Engineering: 6131, 6136, 7001, 7111, 7112, 7113, 7115, 7116, 7117, 7118,
                                    7119, 7991, 7996.
                              
                              Transportation Engineering: 6155, 6162, 6163, 6164, 7001, 7162, 7163, 7164, 7165,
                                    7166, 7168, 7169, 7263, 7267, 7268, 7360, 7363, 7991, 7996.
                              
                              Water Resources Engineering: 6180, 6190, 7133, 7153, 7163, 7181, 7182, 7185, 7191,
                                    7192, 7193, 7194, 7195, 7196, 7197, 7991, 7996.
                              
                              Engineering Seismology: 7002, 7116, 7119, 7123, 7125, 7126, 7127, 7128, 7135, 7136,
                                    7137, 7991, 7996. Due to the interdisciplinary nature of the Engineering Seismology concentration, students
                                    in that concentration must include at least two of the following courses: CIVL 7125,
                                    7126, 7127, 7128, 7136.  
                              
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     D. Retention Policy
                     
                     All students enrolled in the Department of Civil Engineering are expected to attain
                        high academic achievement in all courses taken. The criteria listed below will be
                        used to determine retention status of students enrolled in the program leading to
                        a Master of Science degree in Civil Engineering.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Students having been unconditionally admitted to the graduate program in Civil Engineering
                           who maintain a cumulative grade point average of 3.00 or higher will be considered
                           to be in good standing.
                        
                        
                        Students must maintain a cumulative grade point average of 3.00 in all course work
                           at The University of Memphis, in all Civil Engineering course work at The University
                           of Memphis, and for all 7000 level course work at The University of Memphis at the
                           end of each semester of enrollment. Any student not meeting these conditions will
                           be placed on probation.
                        
                        
                        Students admitted on probation must maintain a 3.00 average at the end of each semester
                           until 9 hours of graduate credit are earned. A student having a cumulative grade point
                           average less than 3.00 at the end of the period described will be dismissed. A student
                           having a cumulative grade point average of 3.00 or above will then be subject to the
                           retention criteria listed in 2 above.
                        
                        
                        A student will be permitted two (2) grades of 2.00 or lower in graduate courses taken
                           at The University of Memphis. A student will be dismissed from the program at the
                           end of the semester in which a third grade of 2.00 or lower is earned.
                        
                        
                        A student who has been dropped from the graduate program in the Department of Civil
                           Engineering will be denied permission to enroll in Civil Engineering courses in semesters
                           subsequent to dismissal from the department.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     II.Accelerated BS/MS Program in Civil Engineering
                     
                     This program allows outstanding undergraduates to earn a bachelor’s degree and master’s
                        degree in Civil Engineering in as little as five years by taking graduate-level technical
                        electives that will count toward both degree programs. Specifically, students who
                        are selected into this program can satisfy the undergraduate requirement of nine hours
                        of technical electives by taking 6000-level courses that will then be counted toward
                        their graduate degree program. However, any graduate coursework will not apply to
                        the undergraduate GPA.
                     
                     
                     Students are encouraged to begin planning to enter the Accelerated B.S./M.S. program
                        early in their undergraduate career in consultation with their advisor in the Department
                        of Civil Engineering. Students with a minimum GPA of 3.25 may apply for the accelerated
                        program once they have completed 15 credit-hours of 3000-level CIVL course work. In
                        addition to an application form, students must have the recommendation of their undergraduate
                        academic advisor and the concurrence of the department chair and graduate coordinator
                        in the Department of Civil Engineering. In order to remain in the program, students
                        must maintain a GPA of at least 3.25. To continue in the program past the B.S. degree,
                        students must apply for full admission into the Graduate School and the Civil Engineering
                        M.S. program.
                     
                     
                     III. PhD Degree Program
                     
                     All doctoral students must take CIVL 8001 and 8012. See the beginning of the College
                        section for admission, retention, program objectives and additional graduation requirements.
                     
                     
                     IV. Graduate Certificate in Freight Transportation
                     
                     The transportation profession is facing a significant decline in its workforce due
                        to the increasing number of workers eligible for retirement. Studies indicate as much
                        as 50% of the public sector transportation workforce is now eligible for retirement.
                        According to US DOT "employers will need to hire 4.6 million new workers with 417,000
                        of these positions created as a direct result to increased demand on our transportation
                        systems". In addition, the number of students pursuing degrees in the transportation
                        engineering area (primarily through civil engineering) continues to decline, and the
                        production of graduates is not keeping pace with the demand for skilled workers in
                        this area. The Graduate Certificate in Freight Transportation will enable individuals
                        with science or engineering bachelor's degrees to expand their analytical, practical,
                        and problem-solving skills in the area of freight transportation (e.g., supply chain
                        and logistics, maritime transportation, rail transportation). The certificate will
                        also enable them to transition and pursue advanced degrees (Master's or Ph.D.).
                     
                     
                     A. Admissions
                     
                     To apply for admission, students must fill out the University of Memphis online application.
                        Applicants must have a bachelor's degree in science or engineering with a minimum
                        GPA of 2.75. International students must have competitive TOEFL/IELTS scores. Students
                        who are currently enrolled in a Master's or Doctoral program at the University of
                        Memphis or other universities will be eligible for admission into the Freight Transportation
                        Certificate Program based on the recommendation from their graduate advisor.
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements
                     
                     Required courses:
                     
                     
                        
                        CIVL 7165, Introduction to Intermodal Freight Transportation Systems, 3 hours
                        
                        CIVL 7162, Modeling Freight Transportation, 3 hours
                        
                     
                     
                     Electives:
                     
                     
                        
                        CIVL 7166, Intermodal Freight Terminals and Distribution Facilities, 3 hours
                        
                        CIVL 7012, Prob. Meth In Engr., 3 hours
                        
                        CIVL 7163, Applied Simulation Modeling, 3 hours
                        
                        CIVL 7362, Port Planning, Management, and Operations, 3 hours
                        
                        CIVL 7267,  Maritime Economics, 3 hours
                        
                        CIVL 7268, Transportation Network Analysis, 3 hours
                        
                        CIVL 7263, Introduction to Optimization, 3 hours
                        
                        CIVL 7993, Project and Report, 3 hours
                        
                     
                     
                     C. Retention Requirement
                     
                     In order to continue in the program, students must maintain at least a 3.0 GPA.
                     
                     D. Graduation Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        Student must complete the two (2) required courses and three of the eight (8) elective
                           courses with an average grade of B (3.0) or higher, for a total of 15 credit hours.
                        
                        
                        In the semester of graduation, a student must Apply to Graduate in their MyMemphis
                           portal under the MyDegree tab as well as submit a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to the College Director of Graduate Studies by the deadline specified by the Graduate
                           School.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Click here for course descriptions
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/engr/civl.php
