http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/comp.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                              	Degree Planning
                              	
                        Computer Science
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Computer Science
                     
                     LAN WANG, PhD Chair Room 375, Dunn Hall 901.678.5465 lanwang@memphis.edu Vasile Rus, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Studies vrus@memphis.edu info@cs.memphis.edu
                     
                     www.memphis.edu/cs
                     
                     
                     
                     I. The Department of Computer Science offers the Master of Science in Computer Science and the PhD degree in Computer Science.
                        It also offers Graduate Certificates in Cyber Security and Information Assurance,
                        as well as, Data Science.  All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School
                        (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued.
                     
                     
                     II. Master of Science in Computer Science
                     
                     
                        
                        Admission Requirements
                              
                              GRE scores are required and are an important factor for admission;
                              
                              Two letters of recommendation;
                              
                              An undergraduate degree with a minimum GPA of 2.5 on a 4.0 scale;
                              
                              A minimum score of 550 on the paper-based TOEFL, or 79 on the internet-based TOEFL,
                                 or 6 on IELTS (for students whose native language is not English).
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Prerequisites
                              
                              One year (8 credit hours) of calculus and one semester (3 credit hours) of linear
                                 algebra (Students without the calculus and/or linear algebra prerequisites will be
                                 considered on an individual basis and if admitted must correct the deficiency within
                                 the first semester.)
                              
                              
                              Satisfactory completion of the following courses (or their equivalents): COMP 1900,
                                 2150, 3410, and 2700. (None of these courses may be used to fulfill degree requirements.)
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Program Requirements
                              
                              Satisfactory completion of 33 credit hours of graduate course work approved by the
                                 department, as follows:
                                 
                                    
                                    At least 28 credit hours must be from the 7/8000 level, including:
                                       
                                          
                                          Core Requirement: COMP 7012, 7212, 7612, 7712. These courses must be completed within
                                             the first 27 hours of credit in the program unless approved by the student's advisor. At
                                             least three of these courses must be completed with a grade of B- or better.
                                          
                                          
                                          Project/Thesis: COMP 7996 or COMP 7980. NOTE: Theses must follow the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide .
                                          
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                    At most 6 credit hours of any combination of COMP 6901, 6911, 7/8901, 7980 and/or
                                       7996 can be used toward the 33 hours of course work.
                                    
                                    
                                    COMP 6001, 6005, 6014, 6030, 6040, 6270, 6601, 7960, and 8960 cannot be used toward
                                       the degree.
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              Obtain a passing grade on a comprehensive examination approved by the department.
                              
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Students who are requesting credit transfer from another graduate program must submit
                        an application during the student's first semester in the program. The application
                        will be evaluated by the student’s advisor and the graduate coordinator to determine
                        the number of credits that can be transferred towards completion of the degree requirements.
                        The number of credit hours transferred is limited by the Graduate School.
                     
                     
                     III. PhD Degree in Computer Science
                     
                     
                        
                        Admission Requirements
                              
                              GRE scores are required and are an important factor for admission;
                              
                              Three letters of recommendation;
                              
                              An undergraduate degree in an appropriate discipline with a minimum GPA of 2.5 (on
                                 a 4.0 scale) or equivalent preparation;
                              
                              
                              A score of at least 550 on the paper-based TOEFL, or 79 on the internet-based TOEFL,
                                 or 6 on IELTS (for students whose native language is not English).
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Prerequisites
                              
                              One year (8 credit hours) of calculus and one semester (3 credit hours) of linear
                                 algebra (Students without the calculus and/or linear algebra prerequisites will be
                                 considered on an individual basis and, if admitted, must correct the deficiencies
                                 within the first semester.)
                              
                              
                              Satisfactory completion of the following courses (or their equivalents): COMP 1900,
                                 2150, 3410 and 2700. (None of these courses may be used to fulfill degree requirements.)
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Program Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        Satisfactory completion of coursework requirements as follows:
                           
                              
                              Students with an approved Masters Degree must complete at least 36 credit hours, subject
                                 to the following rules:
                                 
                                    
                                    Between 9-15 credit hours of Dissertation (COMP 9000). NOTE: Dissertations must follow
                                       the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide .
                                    
                                    
                                    All other credit must be completed at the 8000-level
                                    
                                    At most 15 credits of Independent Studies (COMP 8901) can be included
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              Students without an approved Masters Degree must complete at least 72 credit hours,
                                 which must satisfy the following rules:
                                 
                                    
                                    The following coursework must be completed:
                                       
                                          
                                          Core Requirements: COMP 7012, 7212, 7612,and 7712. These courses must be completed
                                             within the first 36 hours of credit in the program unless approved by the student's
                                             advisor. The student must obtain a grade of B or better in each of these courses. 
                                          
                                          
                                          Between 9-15 credit hours of Dissertation (COMP 9000). 
                                          
                                          At least 12 credit hours must be completed in courses at the 8000-level other than
                                             COMP 8901. 
                                          
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                    At most 6 credit hours can be completed in 6000-level courses.
                                    
                                    At most 18 credit hours of Independent Studies (COMP 7/8901) can be included.
                                    
                                    COMP 6001, 6005, 6014, 6030, 6040, 6270, 6601, 7960, and 8960 cannot be used toward
                                       the degree.
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                           Students who are requesting credit transfer from another graduate program must submit
                           an application during the student's first semester in the program. The application
                           will be evaluated by the student's advisor and the Graduate Coordinator to determine
                           the number of credits that can be transferred towards completion of the degree requirements.
                           The number of credit hours transferred is limited by the Graduate School.
                        
                        Satisfactory completion of the following examinations:
                           
                              
                              Qualifying examination: Satisfactory completion of the core requirement is deemed
                                 as passing the qualifying examination. Students with an approved Masters Degree may
                                 satisfy a core requirement by taking the final exam of the core course and obtaining
                                 a passing mark as equivalent to obtaining a B or better grade of the course, or by
                                 having a waiver approved by the student's advisor and the graduate coordinator. A
                                 maximum of two attempts is allowed for each core course, and they must be made within
                                 the first 39 credit hours of entering the program (24 for students with an approved
                                 Masters Degree).
                              
                              
                              Comprehensive Examination: Given and evaluated by a committee composed of departmental
                                 and university representatives upon presentation of an acceptable dissertation proposal.
                              
                              
                              Final Examination: Given and evaluated by a committee composed of departmental and
                                 university representatives upon completion of an acceptable dissertation.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Detailed information can be obtained by contacting the graduate coordinator of the
                        department. Details of the format of the examinations can be found on the Computer
                        Science Department Web site (http:// www.cs.memphis.edu ).
                     
                     
                     IV. Graduate Certificate in Data Science (GCDS) 
                     
                     This certificate program in Data Science aims to provide interdisciplinary training
                        in the important aspects of the rapidly emerging area of Data Science. With large
                        volumes of data being generated every day from multiple sources (including business
                        data, biomedical data, educational data, science data, engineering data, and personal
                        data), the importance of systematic and rigorous approaches to understanding and putting
                        these large volumes of data to good use is now well recognized. Job growth in this
                        area is in overdrive. The Data Science certificate is being proposed to help train
                        a workforce of future data scientists able to tackle the challenges and reap the promising
                        benefits of vast amounts of data available in all parts of the economy, society, and
                        government. At the end of the program, students will exhibit a deep understanding
                        of how to manage large volumes of data, discover patterns and make inferences from
                        data, use models to make predictions about potential solutions, and quantify the reliability
                        and effectiveness of the outcomes. Equipped with such knowledge and skills, the graduates
                        will make significant contributions towards improving the products, processes, and
                        services offered by commercial and non-commercial organizations as well as the government.
                        The Data Science certificate program will be administered by the Computer Science
                        Department, although some courses may be taught by different departments, and any
                        graduate student meeting admission requirements to the certificate program will be
                        eligible to join it from any other areas.
                     
                     
                     The specific objectives of the certificate program are to:
                     
                     
                        
                        Provide training on data collection, storage, manipulation, visualization, and privacy;
                        
                        Provide a strong background in programming, algorithms and methods for statistical
                           analysis in data mining and machine learning;
                        
                        
                        Train students in the use of software tools and systems for processing big data;
                        
                        Educate students on ethical, management, policies and legal requirements in the field
                           of data science.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     A. Admission Requirements The certificate program in Data Science may be pursued concurrently with other graduate
                        programs offered by the university. In particular, students currently admitted to
                        any graduate program at the U of M may join this certificate program. To apply, students
                        must submit the application form and transcripts of prior graduate study.
                     
                     
                     Non-degree graduate students may also pursue this certificate program of study. For
                        example, professionals who have a BS in computer science, computer engineering, mathematics,
                        or other fields and who are proficient with a programming language such as Java or
                        a statistical package such as R, are eligible for admission into the program. Applicants
                        satisfying these requirements are required to submit a brief (one- to two-page) statement
                        of relevant educational and work experience in data analysis in addition to the requirements
                        above. Prospective students must apply for admission both to the program and to the
                        Graduate School.
                     
                     
                     GRE scores are not required for non-degree students' admission into the Data Science
                        certificate program. Acceptance to the certificate program does not imply acceptance
                        into any other graduate in Computer Science.
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements The certificate program requires completion of 12 semester credit hours (6 from the
                        list of core courses and 6 from the list of electives) after admission into the certificate
                        program.
                     
                     
                        
                        Data Science Core Courses COMP 7/8150 Fundamentals of Data Science COMP 7/8745 Machine Learning or COMP 6745 Introduction to Machine Learning Note: COMP 6001 (Computer Programming) or equivalent is required for taking any of
                           the core courses.
                        
                        
                        Data Science Electives COMP 6118 Introduction to Data Mining COMP 7115 Database Systems COMP 7/8116 Adv. Database Systems COMP 7/8118 Data Mining COMP 7/8130 Inform Retrieval/Web Search COMP 7/8740 Neural Networks COMP 7/8747 Adv. Topics in Machine Learning COMP 7/8780 Natural Language Processing MATH 7/8670 App. Stoch. Models MATH 7/8680 Bayesian Inference PSYC 7/8302 Adv. Statistics Psych I
                        
                        
                        Retention In order to continue in the program, students must maintain at least a 3.0 GPA.
                        
                        
                        Graduation To obtain the certificate, a student must complete four of the above-mentioned courses
                           (2 core courses and 2 electives), with an average grade of 3.0 (B) or higher, for
                           a total of 12 credits, and at least three of which must be at the 7000 level or higher. Note: No more than 6 credit hours of this certificate program can be applied towards
                           a MS/PhD degree in computer science.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     V. Graduate Certificate in Cyber Security and Information Assurance (GCIA)
                     
                     This certificate program highlights important aspects of information security and
                        assurance technologies. The University of Memphis is designated by DHS and NSA as
                        a National Center of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance, and its IA courses
                        are accredited by the Committee for National Security Systems for Computer Security
                        standards 4011, 4012, and 4013. These security standards specify the minimum knowledge,
                        skills, and abilities required to fulfill the duties, respectively, of an Information
                        Systems Security Professional, Senior System Manager, and System Administrator. The
                        IA certificate program is administered by the Computer Science Department, the courses
                        are taught by different departments and colleges, and any graduate student meeting
                        admission requirements will be eligible to join the certificate program. Click here to view corresponding gainful employment data.
                     
                     
                     The objectives of the certificate program are as follows:
                     
                     
                        
                        Provide knowledge of contemporary and historical trusted computing systems from an
                           operational, theoretical, and design standpoint.
                        
                        
                        Detailed discussion on security-specific hardware, software, and methodologies.
                        
                        A certificate program meeting national standards that will prepare students to serve
                           the state and the country in a critical area of vulnerability in information infrastructure.
                        
                        
                        Educate students on ethical, management, policies and legal issues, and requirements
                           in the field of information assurance
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                              
                              Admission Requirements The certificate program in Cyber Security and Information Assurance may be pursued
                                 concurrently with other graduate programs at the university. In particular, students
                                 currently admitted to a graduate program at the U of M may join this certificate program.
                                 To apply, students must submit the application form ( http://www.memphis.edu/cs/pdfs/application_info_assurance.docx ) and transcripts of prior graduate study. Non-degree graduate students may also pursue this certificate program of study. For
                                 example, professionals who have a BS in computer science, computer engineering, or
                                 a closely related field, or who have a bachelor's degree in another field and have
                                 been working in the Information Technology (IT) field for at least three years, can
                                 apply to the program. These applicants are required to submit a brief (one- to two-page)
                                 statement of educational and work experience in the computing field, including their
                                 background in computer security, in addition to the requirements above. Students must
                                 apply both to the program and to the University. GRE scores are not required for non-degree students' admission into the Cyber Security
                                 and Information Assurance certificate program. Acceptance to the certificate program
                                 is not an implied acceptance into the MS program in Computer Science.
                              
                              Program Requirements The certificate program requires completion of 12 semester credit hours: 6 from the
                                 list of major Cyber Security and Information Assurance courses and 6 from the list
                                 of electives.
                                 
                                    
                                    Major Cyber Security and Information Assurance Courses
                                       
                                       COMP 6410. Computer Security COMP 7120-8120 (Same as MIS 7670). Cryptography and Data Security COMP 7327-8327. Network and Internet Security
                                       
                                       Note: Non-computer science students must take the prerequisite COMP 3825 (Networking
                                       and Information Assurance) or equivalent before taking any of the above COMP courses.
                                    
                                    Cyber Security and Information Assurance Electives
                                       
                                       COMP 6272. System Administration and UNIX Programming COMP 7900. Cyber Ethics COMP 7125. Computer Forensics (New) LAW 386. Cyber Law CJUS 6180. Corporate & White Collar Crime
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                    Retention In order to continue in the program, students must maintain at least a 3.0 GPA.
                                    
                                    Graduation To obtain the certificate a student must complete four above-mentioned courses (2
                                       major courses and 2 electives), with an average grade of 3.0 (B) or higher, for a
                                       total of 12 credits. Note: No more than 6 credit hours of this certificate program can be applied to the MS/PhD
                                       degree in computer science.
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     VI. Accelerated B.S./M.S. Program in Computer Science
                     
                     This program allows outstanding Majors in Computer Science to begin the coursework
                        for the Master of Science in Computer Science while enrolled as undergraduates. Students
                        are encouraged to consult their advisors and begin planning to enter the Accelerated
                        B.S./M.S. program early in their undergraduate study. The 5-year program is designed
                        to save both cost and time as it removes some typical requirements (e.g. taking the
                        GRE exam) in a standard application for our M.S. program.
                     
                     
                     Applicants to the accelerated program must have met the following requirements:
                     
                     
                        
                        Complete COMP 1900, COMP 2150, COMP 2700, and at least two upper-division COMP courses
                           by the end of the semester of application.
                        
                        
                        Have a minimum 3.0 overall GPA, and a 3.6 GPA for COMP courses.
                        
                     
                     
                     To be admitted to this program, students must submit two reference letters, a copy
                        of their transcript to the Computer Science department office, and pass an interview
                        with the graduate program coordinator in computer science.
                     
                     
                     The accelerated program allows up to 9 hours of graduate coursework to be applied
                        to both the undergraduate and graduate programs. However, any graduate coursework
                        will not apply to the undergraduate GPA.
                     
                     
                     To continue in the graduate program once the B.S. degree is completed, students must
                        apply for full admission into the Graduate School and into the Computer Science department's
                        M.S. program. The GRE requirement for graduate admission is waived for students in
                        the accelerated program.
                     
                     
                     Click here for course descriptions
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/comp.php
