http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/edu/cepr.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                              	Degree Planning
                              	
                        Counseling, Educational Psychology and Research
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Counseling, Educational Psychology, and Research
                     
                     STEVE WEST, PhD Chair Room 100, Ball Hall 901.678.2841 E-mail: jrmller2@memphis.edu www.memphis.edu/cepr
                     
                     
                     
                     I. The Department of Counseling, Educational Psychology, and Research offers graduate
                        degree programs in three program areas: MS and EdD degrees in Counseling, MS and PhD
                        degrees in Educational Psychology and Research, and a PhD degree in Counseling Psychology.
                        Admission to each of these programs is handled separately. Each has its own admission
                        criteria, and application must be made for a particular program before an applicant
                        is considered for that program. Any person admitted to one of these programs who desires
                        to transfer to another program within the department must make formal application
                        to that program and will be evaluated competitively against the same criteria and
                        on the same time schedule as all other applicants for that program. The time to degree
                        completion for the EdD degree in Counseling, the PhD degree in Educational Psychology
                        and Research, and the PhD degree in Counseling Psychology is limited to 10 years,
                        an exception to the general Graduate School policy.
                     
                     
                     The departmental objective is to prepare advanced educational leaders to be both sophisticated
                        practitioners and researchers. Programs in Counseling and Counseling Psychology have
                        a strong scientist-practitioner base. Programs in Educational Psychology and Research
                        have a strong research emphasis. The graduate degrees within the department will qualify
                        students as university and college teachers, counselors, psychologists, program evaluators,
                        and researchers in educational and counseling environments, as well as provide them
                        with the skills necessary to fill a variety of roles in other settings in which knowledge
                        of human development, learning and cognition, research and evaluation methods is essential.
                     
                     
                     All graduate students within the department will demonstrate generalized competency
                        in core areas of psychological inquiry. Generalized competency may be demonstrated
                        either by passing examinations or completing designated coursework in three of the
                        four general domains:
                     
                     
                           1. Research methods and data analysis
                     
                           2. Measurement and evaluation
                     
                           3. Human development
                     
                           4. Learning and cognition
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                             
                                             
                                                
                                                Every graduate student is expected to comply with the general requirements of the
                                                   Graduate School (see   Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) and the program requirements of the degree being pursued
                                                
                                                
                                             
                                             
                                          
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     II. MS Degree Program in Counseling
                     
                     Major: Counseling
                     
                     Concentrations:
                     
                          Clinical Mental Health Counseling
                     
                          Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling
                     
                          Rehabilitation Counseling
                     
                          School Counseling
                     
                     The Master’s degree programs in Counseling prepare entry level counseling professionals
                        with a broad knowledge base in fundamental social/behavioral science (human development,
                        learning and cognition, personality theory, and emerging research on visible ethnic
                        populations and gender differences), counseling and helping skills (individual and
                        group counseling, and assessment), research and evaluation tools, and professional
                        identity, role and function. The concentrations in Clinical Mental Health Counseling
                        and School Counseling are accredited by the Council for the Accreditation of Counseling
                        and Related Educational Programs (CACREP). The Rehabilitation Counseling concentration
                        is accredited by the Council of Rehabilitation Counseling (CORE).
                     
                     
                     Program objectives are: (1) comprehension of concepts and theories underlying the
                        profession of counseling; (2) ability to collect, analyze, and interpret individual
                        and group data, and to generate and test hypothesis related to human behavior; (3)
                        ability to effectively counsel in both individual and group settings: (4) ability
                        to formulate, implement, and evaluate appropriate counseling programs and interventions;
                        (5) ability to understand and demonstrate ethical behavior and the legal and ethical
                        implications of that behavior; and (6) development of sensitivity and understanding
                        of the needs of persons who are culturally different, including the ability to (a)
                        examine attitudes and myths regarding the culturally different client and (b) the
                        sociopolitical forces impacting the culturally different client. A. Program Prerequisites Students need 6 semester hours of course work at the upper division undergraduate
                        or the graduate level in psychological or cultural foundations. B. Program Admission Program admission for concentrations in the Counseling program
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Applicants must apply to the Graduate School and to the program. The Master of Science
                           degree in Counseling is a limited access program; not all eligible candidates are
                           admitted. To be considered for admission, applicants must provide:
                           
                              
                              official undergraduate and/or graduate transcripts of all academic work completed,
                              
                              submit a Graduate Record Exam (GRE) score,
                              
                              complete a program admission application including appropriate goals essay,
                              
                              provide three letters of academic and/or professional reference,
                              
                              undergo an interview with the faculty.
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Deadline for the completion of all admissions requirements is March 1 for the fall
                           semester and October 1 for the spring semester. The program selection committee selects
                           students after all application materials and the personal interview are completed.
                           Program admissions forms are available in the department office.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     All college transcripts and test score information should be sent directly to Graduate
                        Admissions.
                     
                     
                     C. Program Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        The School Counseling and Rehabilitation Counseling programs are a minimum of 48 semester
                           hours. Clinical Mental Health Counseling and Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling are
                           60-semester hour programs.
                        
                        
                        MS program core (18 hours): COUN 7411, COUN 7531, COUN 7541, COUN 7551, COUN 7571,
                           and EDPR 7521.
                        
                        
                        All students are to maintain good standing (3.0 or better cumulative grade point average)
                           and at least a B- in all required courses.
                        
                        
                        Concentration requirements:
                           
                              
                              Clinical Mental Health Counseling (42 hours): COUN 7561, 7630, 7710, 7730, 7750, 7885;
                                 EDPR 7117; CPSY 7700; practicum COUN 7631 (3 hours) and internship COUN 7632 (9 hours);
                                 6 hours elective.
                              
                              
                              Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling (42 hours): COUN 6901, 6913, 6921, 7630, 7710,
                                 7750, 7885, 7912; CPSY 7700; practicum COUN 7941 (3 hours) and internship COUN 7942
                                 (9 hours), EDPR 7117.
                              
                              
                              Rehabilitation Counseling (30 hours): COUN 6901, 6913, 6921, 7750, 7912, EDPR 7117;
                                 3 hours of electives approved by advisor; practicum COUN 7941 (3 hours) and internship
                                 COUN 7942 (6 hours).
                              
                              
                              School Counseling (30 hours): COUN 7542, 7561, 7640, 7730, 7750, and EDPR 7117; 3
                                 hours of supportive electives; practicum COUN 7641 or 7645 (3 hours) and internships
                                 COUN 7642 and 7646 (6 hours). SPED 7000 or COUN 6901 must be taken if students do
                                 not hold a valid teaching license. Students who do not have a valid teaching license
                                 must take one semester hour special problems course COUN 7990.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        All programs include clinical components, practica, and internships; each student's
                           effectiveness will be evaluated by faculty and supervisors. Prior to contact with
                           clients in practicum and internship, students are expected to provide evidence of
                           good judgment and appropriate emotional functioning. Final decisions regarding student
                           effectiveness will be predicated upon factors that include course grades, demonstrated
                           clinical competence, personality factors, and any relevant test scores.
                        
                        
                        Comprehensive examination.
                        
                     
                     
                     III. MS Degree Programs in Educational Psychology and Research
                     
                     Major: Educational Psychology and Research
                     
                     Concentrations:
                     
                          Educational Psychology
                     
                          Educational Research
                     
                     The Master’s degree programs in Educational Psychology and Research prepare educational
                        leaders for scholarly expertise with a knowledge base for critical thinking in human
                        development across the life span, cognitive processes applied to education, educational
                        research methods and statistics.
                     
                     
                     Program objectives are: (1) ability to contribute to the professional field through
                        research presentations and writing; (2) preparation for careers as academicians in
                        institutions of higher education, applied researchers and/or scholarly work; (3) development
                        of leadership skills for professional organizations and the ability to contribute
                        to the field through professional service activities.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admission
                     
                     1. Applicants must submit a completed application packet, including:
                     
                     
                        
                        application to the Graduate School,
                        
                        application to the program,
                        
                        official transcripts for undergraduate and graduate studies,
                        
                        official report of Graduate Record Examination (GRE) scores,
                        
                        a 500 word statement of purpose and intended area of concentration,
                        
                        three letters of recommendation.
                        
                     
                     
                     2.  Applicants to the MS program are evaluated two times a year. All application information
                        must be received by November 1 for spring semester admission, and April 1 for fall
                        semester admission. Applications for international students are only accepted in the
                        fall (November 1 deadline). Late submissions may be considered on an individual basis,
                        but will normally be deferred to the following semester. The admission committee may
                        request a personal interview. Multiple criteria will be used when considering applicant
                        admission, including, but not limited to, undergraduate and graduate grade point average,
                        GRE scores, personal goals statement, relevant employment history, and letters of
                        recommendation. Admission forms are available in the departmental office.
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements
                     
                     1. All programs are a minimum of 36 semester hours.
                     
                     2. MS program core (12 credits):
                     
                     
                        
                        Research (6 credits): EDPR 7521 and 7511 or 7541
                        
                        Learning & Cognition (3 credits): EDPR 7121
                        
                        Human Development (3 credits): at least one from EDPR 7111, 7112, 7117
                        
                     
                     
                     3. Concentration in Educational Psychology or Educational Research (15 credits): courses
                        to be taken within the area of concentration will be planned with the major advisor.
                     
                     
                     4. Electives to be taken outside of the major (6 credits).
                     
                     5. Research project/thesis (3 credits-EDPR 7000): Each MS student is expected to complete
                        an independent research project or thesis as a culminating experience. NOTE: Students
                        electing to write a thesis should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write.
                     
                     
                     6. MS Comprehensive Examination. Upon completion of coursework, each MS degree student
                        will complete a written comprehensive examination covering the domains of research
                        methods and data analysis, measurement and evaluation, human development, and learning
                        and cognition. The exam will be administered by the student’s advisory committee and
                        coordinated by the student’s advisor. An oral examination may follow if it is deemed
                        necessary by the advisory committee.
                     
                     
                     IV. EdD Degree Program
                     
                            Major: Counseling
                     
                     The EdD program in Counseling is designed to prepare advanced professional practitioners
                        in counseling, student personnel services, and counselor education with particular
                        program emphases on multicultural and urban settings. Entry into the program presumes
                        a master’s degree in counseling wherein one has acquired knowledge and skills in human
                        development, helping relationships, group counseling, lifestyle and career development,
                        assessment techniques, research and evaluation and clinical experiences in applied
                        settings. The EdD is designed for individuals seeking advanced preparation as educational
                        leaders in the role of professional counselor and researcher and who may seek additional
                        credentials in counselor supervision and counselor education. The EdD is not appropriate
                        for individuals seeking preparation or licensure as a psychologist.
                     
                     
                     Program objectives are: (1) comprehension of concepts and theories underlying the
                        profession of counseling; (2) ability to collect, analyze, and interpret individual
                        and group data, and to generate and test hypotheses related to human behavior; (3)
                        ability to effectively counsel in both individual and group settings: (4) ability
                        to formulate, implement, and evaluate appropriate counseling programs and interventions;
                        (5) ability to understand and demonstrate ethical behavior and the legal and ethical
                        implications of that behavior; and (6) development of sensitivity and understanding
                        of the needs of persons who are culturally different, including the ability to (a)
                        examine attitudes and myths regarding the culturally different and (b) the sociopolitical
                        forces impacting the culturally different client.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Prerequisites
                     
                     A master’s degree in counseling that meets CACREP or CORE standards for core knowledge
                        and skills. Students with a master’s degree in counseling that does not contain all
                        core areas can be considered for admission, but will be required to complete additional
                        coursework prior to enrolling in doctoral level courses.
                     
                     
                     B. Program Admission
                     
                     1. Applicants must apply to the Graduate School and to the program. The Doctor of
                        Education degree in Counseling is a limited access program; not all eligible candidates
                        are admitted. To be considered for admission, applicants must:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        provide official undergraduate and graduate transcripts of all academic work completed,
                        
                        submit a Graduate Record Exam (GRE) score,
                        
                        complete a program admission application including appropriate goals essay,
                        
                        provide three letters of academic and/or professional reference,
                        
                        undergo an interview with the faculty, and submit a writing sample.
                        
                     
                     
                     2. The program selections committee selects students after all application materials
                        and the personal interview are completed. Deadline for the completion of all admissions
                        requirements is March 1 for the fall semester. Students are admitted one time per
                        year and must begin their coursework during the fall semester.
                     
                     
                     C. Program Requirements
                     
                     1. Thirty six (36) semester hours in the major, including COUN 8501, 8502, 8510, 8511,
                        8530 (6-hrs.), 8730, 8750, 8831, 8841, and 8885; CPSY 8203.
                     
                     
                     2. Nine (9) semester hours in research (EDPR 8541, 8542, and 8561).
                     
                     3. Nine (9) semester hours in a specialty area (such as marriage and family, crisis
                        intervention, career, rehabilitation, school, mental health counseling, etc.).
                     
                     
                     4. Nine (9) semester hours of dissertation. NOTE: Students should familiarize themselves
                        with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write.
                     
                     
                     5. All students must maintain a cumulative grade point average of 3.0 and make no
                        less than a B- in all required courses.
                     
                     
                     V. PhD Degree Programs
                     
                          Major: Educational Psychology and Research
                     
                          Concentrations:
                     
                                Educational Psychology
                     
                                Educational Research
                     
                     The PhD degree program in Educational Psychology and Research is designed to prepare
                        advanced educational leaders for university teaching, applied research, or other professional
                        roles in the areas of human development (infant, child, and adolescent development;
                        adult development and aging), learning (motivation and cognitive processes applied
                        to education), educational research methods and statistics, measurement and program
                        evaluation.
                     
                     
                     Since the purpose of doctoral-level training is to prepare students to conduct research
                        in a specialized area, individuals with no interest in research should not apply to
                        this major.
                     
                     
                     Program objectives are: (1) ability to contribute to the professional field through
                        research presentations and writing; (2) preparation for careers as academicians in
                        institutions of higher education, applied researchers and/or scholarly work; (3) development
                        of leadership skills for professional organizations and the ability to contribute
                        to the field through professional service activities.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admission
                     
                     Applicants to the PhD program are evaluated two times a year. Completed application
                        packets must be received by November 1 for spring semester admission, and April 1
                        for fall admission. Applications for international students are only accepted in the
                        fall (November 1 deadline). Late submissions may be considered on an individual basis,
                        but will normally be deferred to the following semester. The admission committee may
                        request a personal interview. Multiple criteria will be used when considering applicant
                        admission, including, but not limited to, undergraduate and graduate grade point average,
                        GRE scores, personal goals statement, relevant employment history, and letters of
                        recommendation. The number of students admitted to the PhD program will depend on
                        availability of adequate faculty supervision. Admission forms are available in the
                        departmental office. The completed application must include:
                     
                     
                     1. Letters of recommendation from at least three persons familiar with the applicant’s
                        academic background and aptitude for graduate work, specifying in detail the applicant’s
                        capabilities for graduate study and for future performance and scholarship.
                     
                     
                     2. A statement of 500-1000 words indicating the intended area of concentration, the
                        applicant’s present interests and career goals, research and applied interests, and
                        prior research and applied experience.
                     
                     
                     3. A willingness to be interviewed by members of the Educational Psychology & Research
                        faculty, should that be required.
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements
                     
                     1. Credit Hours: A minimum of 54 hours of graduate credit beyond the master’s degree.
                     
                     2. Core Competency: All students upon admission into the doctoral program need to
                        demonstrate competencies in the departmental core domains (research methods; human
                        development; and learning and cognition) as prerequisites for further coursework.
                        Students may demonstrate their competency by (a) having earned at least a 3.0 in a
                        master's level course in each of the above domains, or (b) passing proficiency exams.
                        Doctoral students without proficiency in any of these core domains must complete the
                        appropriate entry level course before more advanced coursework. These entry level
                        courses will not count toward the minimum of 54 hours required.
                     
                     
                     3. Core (24 credits):
                     
                     
                        
                        Research (18 credits): EDPR 8541, 8542, 8561; 2 of 8543, 8549, or 8562 or an approved
                           equivalent, and at least 3 credits of supervised research (EDPR 8081). All doctoral
                           degree students are expected to be active in collaborative research with members of
                           the faculty. This includes the research-based residency project approved by the major
                           advisor that must result in a paper submitted to a refereed journal or a refereed
                           professional conference.
                        
                        
                        Learning & Cognition (3 credits): at least one from EDPR 8149, 8150, 8151.
                        
                        Human Development (3 credits): at least one from EDPR 8111, 8112, 8113, 8114, 8131,
                           8161.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     4. Concentration in Educational Psychology or Educational Research (15 credits): courses
                        to be taken within the area of concentration will be planned with the major advisor.
                     
                     
                     5. Electives to be taken outside of the major (3 credits).
                     
                     6. Comprehensive Examination: Upon completion of coursework each doctoral student
                        will complete a 9-hour written comprehensive examination covering both the educational
                        research and the educational psychology components of their programs. The examination
                        will place emphasis on the student’s area of concentration, will be administered by
                        the student’s advisory committee, and will be coordinated by the student’s advisor.
                        An oral examination will follow the written examination.
                     
                     
                     7. Dissertation and Final Defense (12 credits-EDPR 9000): A dissertation acceptable
                        to the faculty is a requirement for all doctoral students. The dissertation must embody
                        the results of an extended research effort that is an original contribution to the
                        existing body of research within the area of concentration. The dissertation should
                        reflect the candidate’s ability to conduct independent research and interpret in a
                        logical manner the facts and phenomena revealed by the research. Upon completion of
                        the dissertation, each student will orally defend the research undertaken. NOTE: Students
                        should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write.
                     
                     
                     VI. PhD Degree Programs
                     
                           Major: Counseling Psychology
                     
                     The Counseling Psychology program is fully accredited by the American Psychological
                        Association and prepares psychologists who embody a scientific approach to understanding
                        and working with both specific and general problems in human behavior. The program
                        is interdisciplinary and is organized around the scientist-practitioner model of critical
                        thinking. It is implemented through didactic and experiential activities that emphasize
                        research, development, evaluation, and learning as bases for prevention and remediation
                        to assist persons of all ages and all life styles with improving and optimizing their
                        well-being. The program has sufficient flexibility for students to pursue their own
                        interests.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Prerequisites (or their equivalent) at the masters level: Group Processes,
                        Assessment/Evaluation, Career Counseling, Counseling Theories, Practicum/Clinical
                        Techniques, Research/Data Analysis. Students who have not completed these courses
                        prior to entering the doctoral program must complete them early during their course
                        of studies at the University of Memphis and prior to taking advanced courses in the
                        same topic area.
                     
                     
                     B. Program Admission
                     
                     A limited number of applicants are admitted once each year only for admission in the
                        Fall semester; applicants for Spring admission are not considered. All application
                        credentials must be received by December 5 for an applicant to be considered. Applicants
                        to the doctoral program in Counseling Psychology typically hold a master’s degree
                        (or equivalent) in counseling, psychology, or a related mental health area. Applications
                        from students having a bachelor's degree (or equivalent) in counseling, psychology,
                        or a related mental health area will be considered if they have had substantial academic,
                        clinical, or research work experience beyond the undergraduate degree.
                     
                     
                          Multiple criteria will be used when considering applicant admission, including,
                        but not limited to, competitive GRE scores, undergraduate and graduate grade point
                        average, personal statement, letters of recommendation, clinical and research experience,
                        and interviews. A completed application packet will include the following: Graduate
                        School application, departmental application, GRE scores, graduate transcripts, and
                        four letters of recommendation from persons familiar with the applicant’s academic
                        record and potential for graduate study in counseling psychology.
                     
                     
                     C. Program Requirements
                     
                       1.  Program prerequisites as noted above.     2. 15 semester hours in Substantive Psychology including 3 semester hours in each
                        of Biological Bases of Behavior, Social Bases of Behavior, Cognitive-Affective Bases
                        of Behavior, Individual Behavior, History and Systems of Psychology
                     
                     
                       3. 6 semester hours in Counseling Psychology Foundations and Professional Issues,
                        CPSY 8101 & 8201
                     
                     
                       4. 6 semester hours in Psychometric Theory and Methods, CPSY 8575 & 8576, or approved
                        alternatives
                     
                     
                       5. 12 semester hours in Research Methods/Data Analysis, EDPR 8541, 8542, 8543, or
                        approved alternatives; CPSY 8203
                     
                     
                       6. 18 semester hours in Counseling, CPSY 8102, 8202, 8577; COUN 8721, 8750 or approved
                        alternative, 8841
                     
                     
                       7. For students who enter with a master's degree that included clinical practicum,
                        6 semester hours in counseling psychology practicum, CPSY 8200. Minimum of 400 clock
                        hours, of which 150 must be direct contact hours, is required. Students may enroll
                        in 9 additional credits of CPSY 8200, CPSY 8300, or a combination of the two courses
                        as electives. No more than a total of 15 practicum or advanced practicum credits will
                        count toward the program requirements. Students entering with a bachelor's degree
                        and no supervised clinical practicum will be required to take 9 hours of counseling
                        psychology practicum (CPSY 8200). These students may count up to 18 credits of practicum
                        or advanced practicum toward the program requirements.
                     
                     
                       8. 15 semester hours of Electives in a Concentration
                     
                       9. Residency Project and Comprehensive Examinations: Upon completion of the core
                        counseling psychology coursework and a research-based residency project, each doctoral
                        student will complete a written comprehensive examination covering the core counseling
                        psychology domains and an oral examination.
                     
                     
                      10. 12 semester hours in Dissertation, CPSY 9000. NOTE: Students should familiarize
                        themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write.
                     
                     
                     11. 9 semester hours in Predoctoral Internship, CPSY 8800. A full-time one-year internship
                        in Counseling Psychology in an agency approved by the Director of Training is required.
                     
                     
                     D. Enrollment
                     
                     The counseling psychology program is a full-time program of study. Students who enter
                        with a master's degree are able to complete the required coursework in three years
                        and complete a one-year internship in their fourth year. Students who enter with a
                        bachelor's degree are able to complete the required course work in four years and
                        complete a one-year internship in their fifth year. Candidates for the PhD degree
                        in counseling psychology are expected to carry a minimum of 9 credit hours per semester.
                        It is necessary to enroll in 12 credit hours per semester (6-9 in summer) in order
                        to complete the program coursework in the expected time periods.
                     
                     
                     E. Professional Competency
                     
                     Candidates for the PhD in counseling psychology are specializing in a profession.
                        The PhD degree represents more than the accumulation of the specified number of semester
                        hours credit. The student has responsibility to the public and to the psychology profession
                        to ensure that satisfactory levels of professional and research competencies are attained.
                     
                     
                     VII. Graduate Certificate in Career and College Counseling
                     
                     A. Admission to program
                     
                     
                        
                        Students currently admitted to a graduate program at the U of M or other university
                           in the social or behavioral sciences, or students already holding a graduate degree
                           in the social or behavioral sciences, may apply for admission to the Graduate Certification
                           Program in Career and College Counseling.
                        
                        
                        Non-degree seeking students who hold a bachelor's degree or higher who meet the University
                           of Memphis's graduate school requirements. Students must apply to both the certification
                           program and graduate school as a non-degree seeking student.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Application Process
                     
                     
                        
                        In state student must submit copy of their Tennessee Bureau of Investigations background
                           check.   http://www.memphis.edu/tep/pdfs/TBI-BackgroundCheck.pdf
                        
                        Out of state students must submit proof of a commensurate state endorsed background
                           check.
                        
                        
                        If you are eligible to apply for the certification program
                           
                           
                              
                              Complete the certification application
                              
                              Submit two letters of recommendation from a current or previous employers, and or
                                 previous university instructor
                              
                              
                              Student GRE scores
                              
                              A sealed copy of official student transcripts
                              
                              Copy of background check
                              
                              A letter describing the reasons why the student is applying for the certification
                                 programs that discusses how the program supports students prior interests and experience
                                 and future career goals.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        For students with no graduate program experience, a minimum undergraduate grade point
                           of average of 2. 7 5 is recommended for admission at the undergraduate level.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements
                     
                     The online program is designed to be completed in one year across four semesters: Summer
                        I & II, Fall and Spring. The classes are designed to build student's knowledge base
                        incrementally and it is recommended that courses are taken in the following sequence
                     
                     
                     1. General Education including transfer of 19 hour pre-major paths
                     
                     2. Major Field Core:
                     
                     
                        
                        COUN 7824-8824 College Admission Counseling (3 hours) Summer I
                        
                        COUN 7825-8825 Strategies for College and Career Counseling in K-12 Settings (3 hours)
                           Summer II
                        
                        
                        COUN 7826-8826 School Counseling to Close the Achievement Gap (3 hours) Fall
                        
                        COUN 7827-8827 Capstone Course in College and Career Counseling (3 hours) Spring
                        
                     
                     
                     NOTE: Students concurrently enrolled in the Masters program or working toward school counseling
                        licensure can substitute this capstone course for a Secondary Practicum or Internship
                        class. Students electing this option can expect to spend time in a high school and
                        college setting working alongside the college counselors, academic advisors, and career
                        counselors.
                     
                     
                     VIII. Interdisciplinary Graduate Certificate in Disabilities Studies
                     
                     A. Programs Admissions
                     
                     Applicants will apply to the specific certificate program (i.e. Interdisciplinary
                        Graduate Certificate in Disabilities Studies). They should submit:
                     
                     
                     1. transcript of undergraduate degree program and transcripts of prior and current
                        graduate study;
                     
                     
                     2. three letters of recommendation; and
                     
                     3. a letter describing reasons for wishing to take a graduate certificate in the area
                        of disability studies and how the program corresponds with prior experience and anticipated
                        career plans.
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements
                     
                     Required Courses: COUN 6913 Medical and Psychosocial Aspects of Rehabilitation (3 Credit Hours) COUN 6901 Principles and Techniques of Rehabilitation Counseling (3 Credit Hours) UNIV 7400 Family Disability Law and Practice (3 Credit Hours)
                     
                     
                     Choose one 3-hour elective from the following list: ANTH 6531 Alcohol, Drugs and Culture PLAN 7201 Community Facilities Planning CJUS 7510 Law and Society POLS 7111 Issues in Health Services Administration HADM 7114 Long Term Care Administration HADM 7115 Public Health Systems PSYC 7217 Social Psychology PADM 6208 Mental Health Policy and Law PADM 7604 Social Science and the Law SOCI 7411 Social Stratification SOCI 7512 Deviance and Diversity COMM 7012 Seminar in Health Communication NUTR 7212 Applied Nutrition for Health HPRO 7182 Health Promotion HPRO 7702 Contemporary Health Issues HPRO 7703 Lifetime Physical Activity and Health SPED 7000 Psycho-Educational Problems of Exceptional Children and Adults UNIV 7796 Independent Study Total Hours Required: 12
                     
                     
                     IX. Graduate Certificate in Qualitative Studies in Education
                     
                     Program Objectives:
                     
                     1. The certificate will provide students with an understanding of the epistemological
                        and theoretical groundings associated with qualitative research.
                     
                     
                     2. The certificate is intended to provide students with knowledge and experience in
                        various qualitative methodologies and methods.
                     
                     
                     3. The certificate will assist students in constructing their own qualitative research
                        projects following from epistemology -> theory -> methodology -> method ->  analysis/interpretation
                        -> representations -> conclusions.
                     
                     
                     4. The certificate will increase critical thinking skills in relation to general qualitative
                        scholarship, including prevailing theories, ethical considerations, and emerging perspectives.
                     
                     
                     5. The certificate will provide space for students to practice different methodologies,
                        methods, and types of representation, including both traditional and creative analytic
                        practices.
                     
                     
                     6. The certificate program will prepare students to be effective reviewers and critical
                        consumers of qualitative presentations, papers, and journals.
                     
                     
                     7. The certificate program will provide students with opportunities to practice graduate
                        level instruction so that they will enter the job market with concrete teaching experience.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admissions
                     
                     Students who are currently enrolled in a Doctoral program at the University of Memphis
                        or other universities will be eligible for rolling admission application.
                     
                     
                     To apply to the Graduate Certificate Program in Qualitative Studies in Educational
                        Research, students must fill out the University of Memphis online application. They
                        must also submit the following documents to the qualitative certificate coordinator:
                     
                     
                     1. a 2-3 page personal essay about their research interests, prior preparation and
                        experience related to the objectives of the program, and their long-­‐range career/professional
                        plans
                     
                     
                     2. a letter of recommendation from their major professor/committee member supporting
                        the certificate’s requirements of a fully qualitative dissertation
                     
                     
                     Doctoral* students in good standing will be admitted to the Qualitative Studies in
                        Educational Research Certificate Program on the recommendation of the student's major
                        professor/committee member and subject to a successful review of application materials
                        by the qualitative methodologists in the Educational Research program in the School
                        of Education, Health and Human Sciences. The qualitative methodologists, with consideration
                        of all materials, will make final decisions regarding student acceptance to the program.
                     
                     
                     *Qualified Master’s students are eligible based on advisor’s recommendation.
                     
                     B. Program Requirements
                     
                     The certificate requires 12 semester hours of credit. All students must complete 9
                        hours of core courses and 3 hours of an elective. For students with substantial proof
                        of scheduling issues, there is the option to make up credits through a 1-­‐3 hour
                        directed readings with the qualitative methodologists or approved qualitative faculty.
                     
                     
                     1. Required core courses (9 credits):
                     
                     EDPR 7/8561: Introduction to Qualitative Research in Education
                     
                     EDPR 7/8562: Designing Qualitative Research
                     
                     EDPR 7/8565: Qualitative Methods and Analysis
                     
                     2. Example Electives (3 credits unless otherwise noted)*:
                     
                     EDPR 7/8563: Applied Qualitative Theories and Methodologies
                     
                     EDPR 7/8566: Writing Up Qualitative Research (Week-­‐long Summer Retreat)
                     
                     EDPR 8008: Directed Readings in Qualitative Research
                     
                     EDPR 8081: Supervised Research in Qualitative Inquiry
                     
                     ANTH 7/8075: Methods in Anthropology (4 credits) 
                     
                     ANTH 7/8076: Anthropological Data Analysis (4 credits)  
                     
                     SOCI 7/8320: Seminar in Methods of Social Research
                     
                     SOCI 7/8325: Seminar in Qualitative Research Methods
                     
                     COMM 7/8332: Seminar in Communication Research: Advanced Qualitative Research Methods
                     
                     COMM 7/8434: Qualitative Research Methods
                     
                     PSYC 7/8312: Qualitative Research Methods in Psychology
                     
                     *We recognize that there are many courses across campus that can enrich our elective
                        selection. However, due to extensive possibilities we cannot list all current and
                        future “potential” electives. Therefore, if a student feels that a course outside
                        of EDPR is appropriate as an elective, we ask that the student fill out the petition
                        for elective form to be reviewed and approved by the qualitative coordinator.                  
                     
                     
                     C. Graduate Requirements
                     
                     In order to graduate with the certificate, students must:
                     
                     1. complete all Certificate Program course requirements with a B or above average
                     
                     2. complete a fully qualitative dissertation
                     
                     3. have a qualitative methodologist sit on their dissertation committee
                     
                     4. submit the Certificate in Qualitative Studies in Educational Research Completion
                        Form online
                     
                     
                     5. submit appropriate certificate completion form from the University of Memphis graduate
                        school for program coordinator’s signature
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     X. Graduate Certificate in Quantitative Studies in Educational Research
                     
                     A. Admission
                     
                     Admission to the program will be based on competitive selection from the pool of applicants 
                     
                     
                        
                        Complete admission to The University of Memphis and the College of Education, Health
                           and Human Sciences
                        
                        
                        Have a minimum score of (250 computer based or 100 Internet based) on the TOEFL (for
                           students for whom English is a second language).
                        
                        
                        A minimum of a BS/BA in a related field with a cumulative GPA of 3.0 on a 4.0 point
                           scale.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        Prerequisites: EDPR 7/8541 or equivalent and EDPR 7521 or equivalent. 
                        
                     
                     
                     Participants complete 15 credits hours of graduate work. Six (6) credits are obtained
                        from completing:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        EDPR 7/8542: Statistical Methods Applied to Education (3)
                        
                        EDPR 7/8511: Introduction to Measurement and Evaluation (3)
                        
                     
                     
                     And nine (9) credits are selected from: 
                     
                     
                        
                        EDPR 8549 : Multivariate Methods in Education (3)
                        
                        EDPR 8544: Application of Multiple Regression (3)
                        
                        EDPR 7/8531: Computer as a Research Tool (3)
                        
                        EDPR 7/8543: Research Design and Analysis (3)
                        
                        EDPR 7/8512: Psychometric theory (3)
                        
                     
                     
                     C. Progression/Retention
                     
                     
                        
                        All students in the certification program must maintain a 3.0 graduate GPA.
                        
                        A cumulative graduate GPA of 3.0 or better is required for certification.
                        
                        All courses towards certification must be completed within 3 years.
                        
                     
                     
                     Click here for course descriptions
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/edu/cepr.php
