http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/edu/index.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                           	Degree Planning
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     College of Education
                     
                     ERNEST RAKOW, PhD Interim Dean
                     
                     SUZANNE LEASE, PhD Interim Assistant Dean of Education for Graduate Programs
                     
                     E-mail: shutsell@memphis.edu Homepage: http://www.memphis.edu/coe
                     
                     GRADUATE ACADEMIC PROGRAMS
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              Department
                              Major
                              Concentration within Major
                              Degree Offered
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Counseling, Educational Psychology, and Research
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Counseling
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 (1) School Counseling
                                 
                                 (2) Clinical Mental Health Counseling
                                 
                                 (3) Rehabilitation Counseling
                                 
                                 (4) Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Science (MS)
                                 
                                 Doctor of Education (EdD)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Counseling Psychology
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Educational Psychology and Research
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 (1) Educational Psychology
                                 
                                 (2) Educational Research
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Science (MS)
                                 
                                 Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Instruction and Curriculum Leadership
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Instruction and Curriculum Leadership 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 (1) Early Childhood Education
                                 
                                 (2) Instruction and Curriculum
                                 
                                 (3) Instructional Design and Technology
                                 
                                 (4) Reading
                                 
                                 (5) Special Education
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Science (MS) 
                                 
                                 Doctor of Education (EdD)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 (1) Early Childhood Education
                                 
                                 (2) Elementary Education
                                 
                                 (3) Middle School Education/Special Education
                                 
                                 (4) Secondary Education
                                 
                                 (5) Special Education
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Instructional Design and Technology
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Graduate Certificate
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Autism Studies
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Graduate Certificate
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 School Library Information Specialist
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Graduate Certificate
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 STEM Teacher Leadership
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Graduate Certificate
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Teaching in Diverse School Populations
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Graduate Certificate
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Literacy Leadership and Coaching
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Graduate Certificate
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Urban Education
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Graduate Certificate
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Leadership
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Leadership and Policy Studies
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 (1) School Administration
                                 
                                 and Supervision
                                 
                                 (2) Leadership
                                 
                                 (3) Student Personnel
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Science (MS)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 (1) Educational Leadership
                                 
                                 (2) Community Education
                                 
                                 (3) Policy Studies
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Doctor of Education (EdD)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Higher and Adult Education
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 (1) Higher Education
                                 
                                 (2) Adult Education
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Doctor of Education (EdD)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Community College Teaching and Leadership
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Graduate Certificate
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Interdisciplinary
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Education
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Education Specialist (EdS)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Individual program requirements described in The University of Memphis Graduate Catalog,
                        2016-2017, are subject to change. Please consult your department or the Office of the Graduate School for changes that
                           may occur before publication of the next issue of this Catalog. Every graduate student is expected to comply with the general requirements of the
                        Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) and the program requirements of the degree being pursued (see departmental listings
                        in this section).
                     
                     
                     Graduate programs in the College of Education prepare students to be leaders within
                        their professional areas of education. Candidates for a degree must design a curriculum
                        plan that has the approval of their major advisor, the department chair, and the Associate
                        Dean for Graduate Studies.
                     
                     
                     In programs where candidates are specializing in a professional area, awarding a degree
                        or recommending for a professional license does not merely attest to the accumulation
                        of the specified number of hours in the classroom or other professional setting but
                        also to the demonstration of professional knowledge, skills, and dispositions. The
                        faculty has the responsibility to both the public and the profession to award a degree
                        or license only when the candidate has demonstrated a satisfactory level of professional
                        knowledge, skills, and dispositions as judged by the program faculty. Further, candidates
                        must exhibit integrity and character consistent with the standards of ethical principles
                        set forth by appropriate professional associations and Tennessee law.
                     
                     
                     The College of Education offers degrees at the master's, specialist, and doctoral
                        levels. The master's degree programs are the Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT), and
                        the Master of Science (MS). Offered at the post-master's level are the degrees of
                        Education Specialist (EdS), Doctor of Education (EdD), and Doctor of Philosophy (PhD).
                     
                     
                     Graduate degrees in the College of Education are available in the departments of Counseling,
                        Educational Psychology, and Research; Instruction and Curriculum Leadership; and Leadership.
                     
                     
                     For specific information concerning majors, areas of concentration, course requirements,
                        etc., students should review the program descriptions found under the departmental
                        listings in this Bulletin. See the chart of academic programs at the beginning of
                        this section for majors and concentrations.
                     
                     
                     MASTER'S DEGREE PROGRAMS
                     
                     The College of Education offers programs leading to the Master's degree in the departments
                        of Counseling, Educational Psychology, and Research; Instruction and Curriculum Leadership;
                        and Leadership.
                     
                     
                     Master of Science Degree (MS)
                     
                     The Master of Science degree is available to individuals who are already licensed
                        and want to expand their work in their teaching areas or individuals without licensure
                        who desire to work in education-related settings but do not need teacher licensure.
                        This degree is directed toward the development of competencies necessary for leadership
                        and advancement in K-12 settings and fields related to education.
                     
                     
                     Master of Arts in Teaching Degree (MAT)
                     
                     The Master of Arts in Teaching degree is designed for people with outstanding undergraduate
                        records who are seeking initial teacher licensure at the graduate level. Students
                        may pursue licensure in special education, early childhood, elementary, or secondary
                        fields.
                     
                     
                     Master's Program Requirements
                     
                     Admission to Master's Degree Candidacy
                     
                     Admission to the Graduate School allows students to enroll and begin to take courses
                        prior to admission to a degree program. However, a student's initial enrollment should
                        not be taken to mean acceptance for degree candidacy. To become a candidate for a
                        degree, the student must apply for a specific degree and major and be accepted for
                        that degree. A maximum of 12 hours taken prior to acceptance will be counted for that
                        degree. At the beginning of the semester of graduation the student must submit an
                        "Apply to Graduate" form and an "Application for Admission to Master's Degree Candidacy"
                        form. See the Graduate School homepage for specific dates and forms. For advice on completing the candidacy form, the student
                        should consult the major advisor.
                     
                     
                     Appointment of Advisor
                     
                     Prior to initial enrollment, the student is advised to arrange an interview with the
                        chair or a representative of the department in which the student plans to major. At
                        this meeting the student may be assigned an advisor who will help the student in planning
                        a program of studies. Some departments appoint an advisor upon admission.
                     
                     
                     Workshops and Independent Study Credits
                     
                     The maximum combined credit in "Independent Study" and "Workshop" courses that can
                        be applied to the master's degree is 12 semester hours with no more than 6 semester
                        hours applying to the major. Seven semester hours of credit in "Independent Study"
                        courses may be applied to master's degree requirements, but no more than 4 of these
                        hours may be taken in either the major or the collateral area.
                     
                     
                     If the student should elect to take "Workshop" courses and no "Independent Study"
                        courses, only 6 workshop hours could apply to the major.
                     
                     
                     Other Requirements
                     
                     For all master's programs, a minimum of 70% of the total required hours must be taken
                        at the 7000 level. At least 12 semester hours of these must be taken in the major.
                     
                     
                     Program of Studies
                     
                     Each student, in consultation with an advisor, will plan a program of studies leading
                        to the fulfillment of the requirements for one of the degrees listed below.
                     
                     
                     Minimum requirements for the Master of Science degree are:
                     
                     
                     Major:
                     
                     Content for Specialty 18-21 hours Research 3 hours (EDPR 7521 or 7523) Electives (selected in consultation with student's advisor) 9-18 hours
                     
                     
                     Total 30 hours Minimum requirements for the Master of Arts in Teaching degree are:
                     
                     
                     Major:
                     
                     Professional Core 9-15 hours Professional Specialization 15-21 hours Professional Development 7 hours Research 6 hours
                     
                     
                     Total 30-43 hours
                     
                     Substitutions for Required Courses
                     
                     Any substitutions for departmental required courses in the major must be approved
                        by the graduate coordinator and the department chair. Substitutions that affect college
                        or degree requirements must be approved by the advisor, the department chair, and
                        the Associate Dean for Graduate Studies.
                     
                     
                     Master's Thesis
                     
                     A thesis of 3 to 6 semester hours may be presented as partial fulfillment of degree
                        requirements. Each degree candidate must enroll for thesis credit each semester until
                        the thesis is completed. A student who fails to complete the thesis at the end of
                        the academic semester following registration for the total credits allowed to count
                        toward the degree will be required to renew his/her status. In order to remain in
                        active status, the candidate will be required to register for 1 hour of thesis credit
                        each academic semester until the thesis is completed. Summer school enrollment is
                        optional for continuous enrollment. Credit will be posted upon the completion and
                        acceptance of the thesis, but no more than 6 hours will be counted toward degree requirements
                        for a master's thesis. This requirement may be waived for any semester the advisor
                        is not on campus or for other reasons approved by the major advisor, the department
                        chair, and the Associate Dean for Graduate Studies of the College of Education. Students
                        in the MAT program may not enroll in thesis credit during the semester of student
                        teaching.
                     
                     
                     Thesis Guidelines
                     
                     Theses must be prepared according to guidelines specified by the College. For specific
                        information, a student should consult his/her major professor. NOTE: Students electing
                        to write a thesis should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write.
                     
                     
                     Master's Project
                     
                     Students choosing to complete a Master's Project for the MAT degree must enroll in
                        3 hours of Master's Project credit. A grade of IP (In Progress) will be assigned until
                        the Master's Project is completed. Receipt of the grade of IP requires continuous
                        enrollment each semester for the same number of hours, including summer, until a final
                        grade of S or U is earned. Students in the MAT program may not enroll in the Master's
                        Project during the semester of student teaching.
                     
                     
                     Master's Comprehensive Examination
                     
                     Before being recommended for graduation, every candidate for the master's degree is
                        required to pass a final comprehensive examination.
                     
                     
                     Departmental requirements with reference to comprehensive examination, thesis, research,
                        and course requirements for each of these degree programs are found under the appropriate
                        departmental sections in this Bulletin.
                     
                     
                     EDUCATION LICENSURE AT THE GRADUATE LEVEL
                     
                     The Master of Science degree program is used for securing additional endorsements
                        in the areas of Beginning Administration K-12(B), Professional Administration K-12,
                        Counselor K-12, Librarian K-12, Reading Specialist (grades K-12), Early Childhood
                        PreK-3, Special Education Modified, Special Education Comprehensive, and Special Education
                        Early Childhood. The applicant who wishes to add these areas must complete an approved
                        program and be recommended by the College.
                     
                     
                     To obtain a Tennessee License with an endorsement in one of the following areas: School
                        Psychologist or Special Education Speech and Language PreK-12, the applicant must
                        complete the approved program and be recommended by the College.
                     
                     
                     Initial Teacher Licensure
                     
                     The Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) program awards initial teacher licensure with
                        a master's degree. Programs are available for Early Childhood (PreK-3); Elementary
                        (K-6); Middle Grades (4-8); Secondary (7-12); Special Education: Modified or Comprehensive
                        (K-12); Special Education: Early Childhood (PreK-3).
                     
                     
                     Clinical Teaching
                     
                     Students seeking initial licensure must complete at least one semester of clinical
                        teaching in the placements coordinated and approved by the Coordinator of Field Experiences
                        in the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences. Students may not student teach
                        during the summer semester.
                     
                     
                     Policies Governing Licensure at the Graduate Level
                     
                     Students who have received a bachelor's degree from an accredited institution that
                        did not qualify them for a teacher's license may become eligible for licensure by
                        enrolling as a master's student in the MAT degree program and completing the requirements
                        for the program according to the current catalog. These candidates should confer with
                        the coordinator of the MAT licensure program concerning individual program requirements.
                     
                     
                     Procedures for Admission to the Graduate Level Teacher Preparation Program
                     
                     The student must apply for admission to the Graduate School and to the Master of Arts
                        in Teaching degree program. After admitted, the student should meet with the MAT advisor. 
                     
                     
                     For initial licensure the student must have an appropriate undergraduate major for
                        the area of teaching licensure being sought.
                     
                     
                     Adding an endorsement at the graduate level that requires The University of Memphis's
                        recommendation may be accomplished by completing the requirements of the approved
                        program. Information can be obtained from the teacher licensing advisor.
                     
                     
                     Simultaneously with admission to the MAT, the student must apply for and meet standards
                        required for admission to the Teacher Education Program (TEP). Only Level I MAT courses
                        should be taken prior to admission to TEP. Students must take the Praxis II Content
                        Knowledge Exam for their licensure area, the PPST Writing Subtest, and successfully
                        interview for TEP admission. Students must be fully admitted to TEP one full semester
                        before application to student teaching and internship is submitted. Application for
                        student teaching/internship is submitted the semester before enrolling in student
                        teaching/internship. A maximum of 12 hours may be taken prior to admission to TEP
                        and the MAT degree program.
                     
                     
                     For additional information, consult the general advisor in the MAT advisor.
                     
                     The Master of Arts in Teaching degree may be earned with the completion of a thesis
                        or Master's Project.
                     
                     
                     For a more detailed explanation of the program, see the Department of Instruction
                        and Curriculum Leadership program description.
                     
                     
                     ONLINE CERTIFICATE IN INSTRUCTIONAL DESIGN AND TECHNOLOGY
                     
                     This certificate program has two tracks: (1) K-12 Educational Technology and (2) Design
                        and Development. Each requires 12 credit hours of online coursework as described below.
                     
                     
                     Admission
                     
                     Students interested in receiving a Certificate in Instructional Design and Technology
                        must be admitted to this graduate certificate program. The courses may be completed
                        as part of a degree program with the advisor's approval, or as additional course work.
                     
                     
                     Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        Track One: K-12 Educational Technology - This track is designed for educators who want to integrate the use of computers
                           in the classroom. The focus of these courses is to develop the technology competencies
                           needed for the development, utilization, and integration of instructional computing
                           technology in the classroom. The required courses are IDT 7061/8061, IDT 7062/8062,
                           IDT 7063/8063, and IDT 7064/8064.
                        
                        
                        Track Two: Design and Development - This track is designed for instructional designers and developers who work in non-education
                           related settings such as business, government, military, and health care. The required
                           courses are IDT 7063/8063, IDT 7070/8070, IDT 7080/8080, and IDT 7090/8090.
                        
                        
                        More information about the Certificate is located at this web site:  www.memphis.edu/idt/programs/idt_cert.php
                        
                     
                     
                     POST-MASTER'S DEGREE PROGRAMS
                     
                     The post-master's degree programs of the College of Education require the candidate
                        to have a clear professional goal and a commitment to scholarship, leadership, and
                        excellence. To accomplish this, a close, continuous professional interaction between
                        the candidate, faculty, and fellow students is an integral part of the program of
                        study.
                     
                     
                     To be admitted to post-master's degree candidacy in the College of Education the student
                        must first meet all Graduate School requirements and then complete a candidacy file
                        in the department in which admission is sought.
                     
                     
                     EDUCATION SPECIALIST (EdS)
                     
                     The Education Specialist is an interdisciplinary degree designed to provide an individualized,
                        flexible program of studies for the educator-practitioner in either a school or non-school
                        setting, whose academic interests are aimed at specific and individual career goals
                        and needs. It offers opportunities for advanced professional specialization and includes
                        a relevant culminating experience or a thesis. Studies may be focused in the departments
                        of Counseling, Educational Psychology, and Research; Instruction and Curriculum Leadership;
                        and Leadership. A collaborative EdS is offered with the Department of Psychology.
                     
                     
                     Program objectives are: (1) strong knowledge base in a major area of study, research,
                        cultural or psychological foundations, and a supportive area of study; (2) ability
                        to evaluate and conduct research in higher, adult education, and lifelong learning;
                        (3) development of skills and dispositions for leadership positions in educational
                        organizations.
                     
                     
                     DOCTOR OF EDUCATION (EdD)
                     
                     Doctor of Education programs in the College of Education are designed to improve the
                        competency of teachers, counselors, supervisors, and administrators; to serve the
                        career needs and goals of individuals in education-related fields; to encourage research
                        in a student's area of concentration; and to initiate and implement programs involving
                        the school and the community. The programs provide both breadth and depth of preparation
                        through a flexible combination of academic specialization, interdisciplinary study,
                        and significant research.
                     
                     
                     DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY (PhD)
                     
                     The PhD in Counseling Psychology or Educational Psychology and Research is offered
                        by the Department of Counseling, Educational Psychology, and Research. It is designed
                        to meet the needs of candidates who wish to seek licensing as counseling psychologists
                        or candidates preparing for research and college faculty positions.
                     
                     
                     Admission to Post-Master's Candidacy
                     
                     Admission to the EdS, EdD, and PhD programs is handled by the department in which
                        the student wishes to major. After completion of the department's candidacy file,
                        the department admissions committee will act on the application and notify the student
                        of its action.
                     
                     
                     Appointment of Advisory Committee
                     
                     When admitted to candidacy, the student should consult with the department chair and
                        the temporary advisor in order to secure the appointment of a permanent major advisor
                        who will also serve as chair of the program advisory committee. The department chair,
                        following consultation with the student and the major advisor, will make a recommendation
                        to the Associate Dean for Graduate Studies concerning the appointment of a graduate
                        program advisory committee to assist the student in planning a complete program of
                        studies. Upon approval by the Associate Dean for Graduate Studies, the appointment
                        will be forwarded to the Graduate School.
                     
                     
                     The student's program advisory committee for the EdS, EdD, and PhD degrees shall be
                        composed of at least three members. Each committee member must be a member of the
                        Graduate Faculty at The University of Memphis.
                     
                     
                     PROGRAM OF STUDIES
                     
                     All programs of study for the EdS, EdD, and PhD degrees are individually designed
                        by the student and the program advisory committee to accomplish the student's educational
                        goal and ensure mastery of requisite knowledge, skills, and dispositions for the discipline.
                     
                     
                     Time Limitations
                     
                     Each student, in consultation with the program advisory committee, will plan a complete
                        program of studies. The program of studies must be placed on file with the Associate
                        Dean for Graduate Studies before the end of the semester immediately following admission
                        to the program. No doctoral student may be considered as officially in residency unless
                        the student has filed a program of studies, signed by the program advisory committee.
                     
                     
                     The student's program of studies for the EdS degree must include a minimum of 33 semester
                        hours earned no more than six years prior to the date of graduation.
                     
                     
                     The student's program of studies for the EdD or PhD degree must include a minimum
                        of 54 post-master's semester hours. Time limitations for completion of the degree
                        vary by department. The Departments of Counseling, Educational Psychology, and Research
                        and Leadership have ten (10) year time limitations for completion of the doctoral
                        programs. The Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership has a twelve (12)
                        year time limitation for completion of the doctoral program.
                     
                     
                     Acceptance of Transfer Credit
                     
                     Credit earned at another institution must be presented for consideration not later
                        than the end of the student's second semester of enrollment. Upon approval by the
                        student's program advisory committee, the credit will be transferred to apply toward
                        the EdS, EdD, or PhD, provided that the credit meets general University and specific
                        program requirements.
                     
                     
                     Approved transfer credit may be accepted for not more than 12 semester hours of post-master's
                        degree course credit for the EdS, EdD, or PhD degree.
                     
                     
                     Other Requirements
                     
                     The maximum combined credit in Independent Study and "Workshop" courses that may be
                        applied to EdS degree requirements is 9 semester hours.
                     
                     
                     The maximum combined credit in Independent Study and "Workshop" courses that may be
                        applied to the EdD degree requirements is 18 semester hours.
                     
                     
                     Planning the Program
                     
                     Minimum requirements for the Education Specialist degree are:
                     
                     
                     Major:
                     
                     Content for Specialty 21 hours (Including 6 hours culminating experience) College Core 6 hours (Complete one three-hour course in research* and one three-hour
                        course in educational psychology appropriate to the area of study) Electives 6 hours
                     
                     
                     Total 33 hours
                     
                     Minimum requirements for the Doctor of Education degree are:
                     
                     
                     Major
                     
                     Content for Specialty 42-45 hours (Includes 9-12 hours dissertation) Research Core* 9-12 hours (EDPR 8541, 8542 and 3-6 hours of research electives)
                     
                     
                     Total 54 hours
                     
                     * A master's level introduction or research course is assumed (EDPR 7521 or 7523).
                     
                     Changes in Program of Studies
                     
                     Any changes to be made in a program of studies must be submitted on the appropriate
                        form and must have the approval of the program advisory committee, the department
                        chair, and the Associate Dean for Graduate Studies.
                     
                     
                     Doctoral Residency
                     
                     Students working toward the doctoral degree must fulfill the University and College
                        residency requirement after filing a program of studies.
                     
                     
                     Purpose
                     
                     The purpose of residency is to provide the doctoral student with significant time
                        for sustained contact with faculty members. An expected outcome is the acquisition
                        of skills of inquiry, an opportunity for research, and the incorporation of professional
                        values into the experience that the student brings to graduate school. Also, it facilitates
                        the creation of a cohesive climate in which inquiry becomes the linking feature of
                        the graduate student experience. In short, residency is expected to be a vehicle for
                        socialization into the shared community of professional life. At the heart of that
                        community lies a commitment to sustained inquiry that extends beyond the period of
                        doctoral preparation and into the student's lifetime work, either as a practitioner
                        or as one who demonstrates leadership based on a foundation of inquiry.
                     
                     
                     Doctoral Residency Policies
                     
                     1. A doctoral student must select one of the following course enrollment options:
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           The student will maintain two semesters of continuous enrollment of 9 hours per semester.
                              The enrollment requirement may be satisfied by enrolling in fall, spring, and summer
                              semesters.
                           
                           
                           Three semesters of continuous enrollment of 6 hours per semester;
                           
                           Nine hours of enrollment per semester during two consecutive summers and at least
                              3 hours per semester during the intervening fall and spring semesters.
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        2. A plan for the scholarly product of residency will be developed by the student
                           and major professor. The plan will be reviewed by the department.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     3. The scholarly product plan of residency consists of the following elements:
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           The plan will be contained in a 3-5 page document.
                           
                           It will contain an introduction to the problem area that the student will address
                              during the coming period of residency. This introduction will include a specification
                              of the problem, an indication of its importance, and a brief summary of pertinent
                              literature placing the problem in its context. Relevant theoretical implications will
                              be noted.
                           
                           
                           It will detail a plan of action including projected time benchmarks to resolve the
                              problem. It is expected that this plan will allow for a sustained and multifaceted
                              inquiry that incorporates significant components derived from the literature and that
                              have implications for the field of study.
                           
                           
                           Tools of inquiry expected to be required in the course of completing the residency
                              will be noted. If the candidate possesses these tools, some indication documenting
                              the mastery of the tool component should be noted. If skills of inquiry are to be
                              acquired during the course of the residency this must be noted.
                           
                           
                           Faculty resources associated with each component of the plan must be indicated.
                           
                           The products of the residency will be noted. It is expected that the residency will
                              lead to a paper submitted to a refereed journal or a peer-reviewed conference.
                           
                           
                           A copy of the scholarly product of residency that has been approved by the major advisor
                              must be filed with the Associate Dean for Graduate Studies.
                           
                           
                           All research involving data collection, use of existing data, or other investigations
                              using human subjects must be reviewed and approved by the University's Institutional
                              Review Board for the Protection of Human Subjects prior to beginning any such research.
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Timetable for Filing for Residency
                        
                     
                     
                     Prior to beginning residency, the written plan must be filed. The plan must have the
                        approval signatures of the chair of the candidate's program advisory committee and
                        of the department chair. It must be submitted to the department office of the candidate's
                        major for approval no later than the last day of graduate registration in the semester
                        designated to count as residency. Students are expected to have satisfied requirements
                        for admission to the doctoral program before filing a residency plan.
                     
                     
                     Comprehensive Examination for the EdS, EdD, and PhD Degrees
                     
                     When the candidate in good standing has completed all course requirements for the
                        EdS, EdD, or PhD degree or is enrolled in the last semester of coursework (exclusive
                        of culminating experience or dissertation) he/she must pass a comprehensive exam,
                        written and oral, covering the major and collateral fields of study. For EdD and PhD
                        candidates, residency must be completed prior to taking the comprehensive exams. The
                        student who passes the comprehensive exam will be designated as a Late Doctoral Candidate
                        or Late Specialist candidate in the candidate's degree status. Doctoral students may
                        not enroll in dissertation hours until they have attained Late Doctoral status.
                     
                     
                     EDS CULMINATING EXPERIENCE AND DOCTORAL DISSERTATION
                     
                     The EdS degree candidate will present a six-hour culminating experience appropriate
                        to the major area of specialization. This may be fulfilled through a thesis based
                        on research related to the major, a field study of a significant problem, an organized
                        internship, or a special project appropriate to the major.
                     
                     
                     An acceptable dissertation is a requirement for all doctoral degrees. The dissertation
                        must embody the results of an extended research effort that is an original contribution.
                        It should reflect the candidate's ability to conduct independent research and interpret
                        in a logical manner the facts and phenomena revealed by the research. The student
                        will be required to meet the specific regulations of the major department and of the
                        Graduate School (see the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide ). The EdD or PhD degree candidate will present a dissertation for 9-12 hours credit.
                     
                     
                     Enrollment Requirements
                     
                     All degree candidates must maintain continuous enrollment of at least one credit hour
                        per semester (Summer school enrollment is optional for continuous enrollment.) once
                        they begin taking field study, culminating experience, or dissertation hours. If they
                        fail to do so, they will be charged retroactive tuition at graduation.
                     
                     
                     Credit will be posted upon the completion and acceptance of the culminating experience
                        or dissertation, but no more than 6 hours will be counted toward degree requirements
                        for an EdS culminating experience and no more than 12 hours for a doctoral dissertation.
                     
                     
                     The continuous enrollment requirement may be waived for any semester the advisor is
                        not on campus or for other reasons approved by the major advisor, the department chair,
                        and the Associate Dean for Graduate Studies of the College of Education.
                     
                     
                     Failure to remain in continuous enrollment without an approved waiver will result
                        in reevaluation of the candidate's status in the program by the program advisory committee.
                     
                     
                     Committee Membership for Supervision of the Dissertation
                     
                     After completing the comprehensive examination, the candidate will form a dissertation
                        advisory committee of at least four graduate faculty members. The dissertation advisory
                        committee will direct the development of the candidate's prospectus, dissertation,
                        and defense. The chair (major professor) must be a full graduate faculty member from
                        the candidate's area of concentration within the major. At least one other committee
                        member must be a faculty member in the candidate's major. The department chair, following
                        consultation with the candidate and the major advisor, will make a recommendation
                        to the Associate Dean for Graduate Studies concerning the appointment of the dissertation
                        advisory committee.
                     
                     
                     Doctoral Prospectus
                     
                     In order to provide a relatively uniform framework for preparation of a doctoral prospectus,
                        the College of Education has specified a format to be followed in its preparation.
                        Copies of the format may be obtained from the major advisor or from the office of
                        the Associate Dean for Graduate Studies.
                     
                     
                     Once a prospectus is approved, it is expected that the study will be completed within
                        three years; if not, the program advisory committee will reevaluate the candidate's
                        status in the program.
                     
                     
                     "Early doctoral student" designation applies to all doctoral candidates from the time
                        of formal admission to candidacy in the College of Education until the time of completion
                        of course work and passing the comprehensive exam. At that time the candidate is redesignated
                        as "late doctoral student."
                     
                     
                     Culminating Experience/Dissertation Guidelines
                     
                     Culminating experiences and dissertations must be prepared according to guidelines
                        specified by the College and the Graduate School. For specific information, the student
                        should consult his/her major advisor. NOTE: Students should familiarize themselves
                        with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write.
                     
                     
                     Final Examination (Culminating Experience/Dissertation Defense)
                     
                     After the completion of the culminating experience/dissertation and all other prescribed
                        work for the degree, all candidates will be given a final oral examination dealing
                        primarily with the culminating experience/dissertation and its relation to the candidate's
                        major field of study. This exam will be conducted by the student's culminating experience/dissertation
                        advisory committee.
                     
                     
                     GRADUATE ASSISTANTSHIPS
                     
                     Graduate assistantships for post-master's students are available in most of the academic
                        areas of the College of Education and a limited number of graduate assistantships
                        for master's students are available.
                     
                     
                     Active work and satisfactory progress toward a degree are necessary to hold an assistantship,
                        and graduate assistants are required to be registered in each term in which they hold
                        assistantships. Full-time graduate assistants take nine hours of course work per semester
                        (six hours if they are enrolled for thesis or dissertation hours) and serve 20 hours
                        per week on the assistantships.
                     
                     
                     Permission for graduate assistants to take fewer than nine credit hours in a semester
                        may be granted by the Graduate School upon the recommendation of the College of Education's
                        Associate Dean for Graduate Studies and the department chair. Permission to take more
                        than twelve hours may be granted upon recommendation of the department chair and the
                        College of Education Associate Dean for Graduate Studies.
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/edu/index.php
