http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/engr/eece.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                              	Degree Planning
                              	
                        Electrical and Computer Engineering
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Electrical and Computer Engineering
                     
                     RUSSELL J. DEATON, PhD Chair Room 206, Engineering Science Building 901.678.2175 AARON ROBINSON, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Studies Room 204A, Engineering Science Building E-mail: alrobins@memphis.edu www.memphis.edu/eece
                     
                     
                     
                     I. The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) offers graduate programs leading to the Master of Science degree with a major in
                        Electrical and Computer Engineering (concentrations in Computer Engineering and Electrical
                        Engineering) and a PhD degree with a major in Engineering (concentrations in Computer
                        Engineering and Electrical Engineering).
                     
                     
                     Program objectives are: (1) ability to apply advanced knowledge of mathematics, physical
                        sciences, and engineering principles to the solution of practical engineering problems;
                        (2) meet or exceed the needs and expectations of public and private sector employers
                        for MS graduates; and (3) preparation to pursue additional advanced studies if so
                        desired. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School
                        (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) and the program requirements of the degree being pursued.
                     
                     
                     II. MS Degree Program
                     
                     A. Admission Requirements
                     
                     The Herff College of Engineering has established uniform admission criteria for all
                        graduate programs. More information can be found on the department website ( http://www.memphis.edu/eece ).
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        Students pursuing the Master of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering must
                           take EECE 7001, either EECE 7100 or EECE 7251, and elect to pursue either a computer
                           engineering or an electrical engineering concentration (multiple concentrations are
                           not permitted). A student can count a maximum of 6 hours of credit for EECE 7991 and
                           7992.
                           
                              
                              Computer Engineering Concentration: 9 hours selected from the following courses: EECE
                                 7012, EECE 7214, EECE 7216, EECE 7217, EECE 7252, EECE 7261, EECE 7262, EECE 7266,
                                 EECE 7267, EECE 7268, EECE 7273, EECE 7720, EECE 7740, or approved computer engineering
                                 special topics courses.
                              
                              
                              Electrical Engineering Concentration: must take 9 hours selected from the following
                                 courses: EECE 7211, EECE 7215, EECE 7230, EECE 7231, EECE 7232, EECE 7233, EECE 7243,
                                 EECE 7245, EECE 7253, EECE 7254, EECE 7255, EECE 7521, EECE 7522, EECE 7523, EECE
                                 7524, EECE 7269 or approved electrical engineering special topics courses.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Thesis option: 30 semester hours, including a thesis (6 semester hours). An average
                           grade of 3.00 must be maintained in all Electrical and Computer Engineering graduate
                           coursework. NOTE: Students electing to write a thesis should familiarize themselves
                           with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide  before starting to write.
                           
                              
                              No more than 9 semester hours may be taken outside the department. Advisor’s approval
                                 is required.
                              
                              
                              At least 21 hours at the 7000 level are required, of which at least 18 hours must
                                 be in Electrical and Computer Engineering.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Non-thesis option: 33 semester hours. An average grade of 3.00 must be maintained
                           in all Electrical and Computer Engineering graduate coursework.
                           
                              
                              No more than 9 semester hours may be taken outside the department. Advisor’s approval
                                 is required.
                              
                              
                              Each student will be required to complete EECE 7993.
                              
                              At least 23 semester hours at the 7000 level required, of which at least 18 hours
                                 must be in Electrical and Computer Engineering.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        All students are required to pass a comprehensive exam during their last semester.
                        
                     
                     
                     C. Retention Requirements
                     
                     All students enrolled in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering are
                        expected to attain high academic achievement in all courses taken. The criteria listed
                        below will be used to determine retention status of students enrolled in the program
                        leading to a Master of Science degree in Electrical Engineering.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Students who maintain a cumulative grade point average of 3.00 ("B") or higher will
                           be considered to be in good standing if no more than 7 hours of "C-," "C" or "C+"
                           or lower have been earned. (See item 3 below and grading system here ).
                        
                        
                        Students must maintain a cumulative grade point average of 3.00 at the end of each
                           semester of enrollment in all course work at The University of Memphis, including
                           all Electrical and Computer Engineering course work and all 7000 level course work.
                           Any student not meeting these conditions will be placed on probation by the department.
                        
                        
                        A student will be permitted no more than 7 hours of "C-," "C" or "C+" or lower in
                           graduate courses taken at The University of Memphis. A student will be dismissed at
                           the end of the semester in which a third grade of "C-," "C" or "C+" or lower is earned.
                        
                        
                        Courses applied to the MS degree program requirements must have the advisor’s approval.
                        
                     
                     
                     III. PhD Degree Program
                     
                     See the beginning of the College section for admission, retention, program objectives,
                        and graduation requirements.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Requirements
                     
                     Students are required to take EECE 8001. Students entering the PhD program must complete
                        the PhD Qualifying Examination procedure prior to registering for their fourth semester
                        in the PhD program. Failure to do so may prevent the student from registering for
                        the fourth semester. More information on departmental procedures can be found at http://www.memphis.edu/eece/eece_phd_info.php .
                     
                     
                     IV. Graduate Certificate Program in Imaging and Signal Processing
                     
                     A. Admission Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        Same as College and University requirements.
                        
                        The certificate can be pursued concurrently with other graduate programs at the University.
                        
                        Non-degree seeking applicants must submit a brief (1-2 pages) statement that describes
                           educational and work experience in engineering, including their background in imaging
                           and signal processing. Acceptance into the certificate program is not an implied acceptance
                           into any master's degree program.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements
                     
                     Completion of 12 semester hours chosen from four of the following five courses:
                     
                     
                        
                        EECE 6243 Linear Optical Systems
                        
                        EECE 7214 Image Processing
                        
                        EECE 7215 Digital Signal Processing
                        
                        EECE 7217 Multimedia Information Processing
                        
                        EECE 7251 Random Signals and Noise
                        
                     
                     
                     C. Graduate Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        The student must complete required courses with an average grade of B (3.0) or higher,
                           for a total of 12 credit hours
                        
                        
                        In the semester of graduation, the student must submit an "Apply to Graduate" form
                           to the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to the College Director
                           of Graduate Studies by the deadline specified by the Graduate School. 
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     More information can be found on the department website ( http://www.memphis.edu/eece ).
                     
                     
                     V. Accelerated BS/MS Program in Electrical or Computer Engineering
                     
                     This program allows outstanding undergraduates to begin the coursework for the Master
                        of Science in Electrical or Computer Engineering during their senior year. Students
                        are encouraged to begin planning to enter the Accelerated BS/MS program early in their
                        undergraduate career, in consultation with their advisor in the Department of Electrical
                        and Computer Engineering. Working with the undergraduate and graduate academic coordinators,
                        undergraduates, who are selected into this program, may choose EECE electives at the
                        6000 level that will allow them to complete their BS degree while also beginning the
                        coursework toward their MS degree. However, any graduate coursework will not apply
                        to the undergraduate GPA.
                     
                     
                     Students may apply for the program once they have completed one semester of junior
                        course work. In order to remain in the program past the junior year, students must
                        maintain a GPA of at least 3.25. Up to 9 hours of graduate course work may be applied
                        to both the undergraduate and graduate programs. To continue in the program past the
                        BS, students must apply for full admission into the Graduate School and either the
                        Electrical or Computer Engineering MS program during their senior year. Students that
                        are eligible for the ABM program will have the GRE requirement waived. 
                     
                     
                     Click here for course descriptions
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/engr/eece.php
