http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/engr/index.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                           	Degree Planning
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Herff College of Engineering
                     
                     RICHARD J. SWEIGARD, PhD, P.E. Dean
                     
                     WARREN O. HAGGARD, PhD Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies Engineering Administration Building E-mail: whaggrd1@memphis.edu
                     
                     www.memphis.edu/herff
                     
                     GRADUATE ACADEMIC PROGRAMS
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              Department
                              Major
                              Concentration
                              Degree or Certificate Offered
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Biomedical Engineering*
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Biomedical Engineering*
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Science (MS) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Civil Engineering
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Civil Engineering
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 (1) Environmental Engineering (2) Geotechnical Engineering (3) Structural Engineering (4) Transportation Engineering (5) Water Resources Engineering (6) Engineering Seismology
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Science (MS) 
                                 
                                 Graduate Certificate in Freight Transportation
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Electrical and Computer Engineering
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Electrical and Computer Engineering
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 (1) Electrical Engineering
                                 
                                 (2) Computer Engineering
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Science (MS)
                                 
                                 Graduate Certificate in Imaging and Signal Processing
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Engineering Technology
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Engineering Technology
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Science (MS)
                                 
                                 Graduate Certificate in Applied Lean Leadership
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Mechanical Engineering
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Mechanical Engineering
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Science (MS) 
                                 
                                 Graduate Certificate in Packaging Engineering
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Interdepartmental
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Engineering
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 (1) Civil Engineering
                                 
                                 (2) Computer Engineering
                                 
                                 (3) Electrical Engineering
                                 
                                 (4) Mechanical Engineering
                                 
                                 (5) Engineering Physics
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     *NOTE: The Master of Science and the Doctor of Philosophy degrees in Biomedical Engineering
                           are offered through a joint academic program with The Department of Orthopaedic Surgery
                           and Biomedical Engineering at The University of Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis.
                     
                     Individual program requirements described in The University of Memphis Graduate Catalog,
                        2015-2016, are subject to change. Please consult your department or the Office of the Graduate School for changes that
                           may occur before publication of the next issue of this Catalog. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School
                        (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) and the program requirements of the degree being pursued (see departmental listings
                        in this section).
                     
                     
                     The Herff College of Engineering offers graduate programs at the masters and doctoral
                        levels through its departments of Biomedical, Civil, Electrical and Computer, and
                        Mechanical Engineering. A Graduate Certificate in Imaging and Signal Processing is
                        available through the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering.  A Graduate
                        Certificate in Packaging Engineering is available through the Department of Mechanical
                        Engineering. In addition, the Department of Engineering Technology offers a masters
                        program in engineering technology and a Graduate Certificate in Applied Lean Leadership.
                        Students enrolled in the college at the masters level work toward the Master of Science
                        (MS) degree. The doctoral program of the college leads to the degree of Doctor of
                        Philosophy (PhD) after successful completion of study and research in one of the following
                        five concentrations: biomedical engineering, civil engineering, electrical and computer
                        engineering, mechanical engineering and engineering physics. Candidates for all degrees
                        must follow a curriculum plan that has been approved at the departmental level and
                        by the Director of Graduate Studies of the College.
                     
                     
                     TRANSCRIPTS AND LETTERS OF RECOMMENDATION All college transcripts and test score information should also be sent directly to
                        University Graduate Admissions. The Master of Science and Ph.D. programs in the Herff
                        College of Engineering require three (3) three letters of recommendation from separate
                        evaluators attesting to qualifications for successfully undertaking graduate studies
                        in order to consider your application complete. The evaluators/faculty members who
                        you choose should be individuals that you believe are best able to comment objectively
                        on your intellectual and professional achievements and potential.
                     
                     
                     We may call or write your recommenders for more information.
                     
                     MASTER OF SCIENCE DEGREE PROGRAMS
                     
                     The masters degree programs provide opportunity for advanced study in various areas
                        of engineering of current importance. Flexibility is provided in that students have
                        the option of a thesis or non-thesis program.
                     
                     
                     Program objectives are the ability to: (1) apply advanced knowledge of mathematics,
                        physical sciences, and engineering principles to the solution of practical engineering
                        problems; (2) meet or exceed the needs and expectations of public and private sector
                        employers for MS graduates; and (3) pursue additional advanced studies if so desired.
                     
                     
                     Admission Requirements
                     
                     Applicants will be considered for admission to the masters program based upon a common
                        set of criteria. These are the applicant’s attainment of an appropriate bachelors
                        degree, the scores earned on the Graduate Record Examination (GRE), and the undergraduate
                        grade point average (GPA). The GPA used is either the cumulative or the last 60 semester
                        hours of applicable courses earned toward a degree.
                     
                     
                     In addition to meeting the University minimum admission requirements, applicants must
                        meet the following criteria established by this College.
                     
                     
                     The applicant must have:
                     
                     
                        
                        an appropriate bachelors degree as determined by the admitting department.
                        
                        an undergraduate GPA that is competitive for the students' bachelors program.
                        
                        an acceptable score on the verbal, quantitative, and analytic portions of the GRE
                           as established by their department or program of study.
                        
                        
                        three letters of recommendation submitted to the University Graduate Admissions Office.
                        
                     
                     
                     In addition to meeting the college minimum admission requirements, applicants must meet admission criteria established by their department of study . An applicant who lacks an appropriate bachelors degree may be required to complete
                        undergraduate deficiency courses. If the number of deficiency courses is large, the
                        applicant may be required to complete an undergraduate degree in engineering before
                        seeking admission to the graduate program.
                     
                     
                     In addition to the above requirements, applicants whose native language is other than
                        English must have a competativecompetitive score on the Test of English as a Foreign
                        Language (TOEFL) or The International English Language Testing System (IELTS). The
                        department of study for an applicant whose highest degree is from an international
                        university may require that their credentials be evaluated. Applicants whose highest
                        degree is from a foreign university must have their credentials evaluated. The college
                        and/or department of study will accept evaluations done by any credentialing agency
                        listed on the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services web site (http://www.naces.org).
                        A course-by course report is required. Applicants are further advised that the admission
                        requirements for the College are minimum requirements. Meeting minimum requirements
                        does not guarantee admission into a specific departmental masters program.
                     
                     
                     English Conditional Admission:   International students are required to demonstrate a strong grasp of the English language
                        before admission into graduate programs. Conditional admission may be granted depending
                        on individual academic departmental policy. If English conditional admission is offered,
                        students will need to register for English skills assessment and take instructional
                        sessions (if required as a result of that assessment) through the University's Intensive
                        English for Internationals (IEI) program (http://www.memphis.edu/iei). Upon successful
                        completion of the requisite sessions, as determined by IEI, the student's English
                        skills will be considered up to standard and the TOEFL/IELTS requirement may be waived
                        depending on specific academic department policy. The student can then proceed into
                        their graduate academic program. Please note that in order to have a complete application
                        packet, students seeking English conditional admission will need to simultaneously
                        apply for the IEI program through the link above and to the Graduate School ( www.memphis.edu/graduateadmissions ).
                     
                     
                     Please note that a student cannot be a graduate assistant (GA) until they have been
                        fully admitted and have begun their graduate academic program. Please review your
                        academic program college's and department's website and graduate catalog entries to
                        determine admission requirements and steps. Questions can be directed to the program's
                        graduate coordinator. Students will pay IEI fees until they meet the language criterion.
                        If courses are taken outside of IEI, the student will be charged additional tuition
                        at the regular rate.
                     
                     
                     Retention Requirements
                     
                     Refer to the individual program descriptions of each department.
                     
                     Graduation Requirements
                     
                     Refer to the individual program descriptions of each department.
                     
                     DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY DEGREE PROGRAM
                     
                     The Herff College of Engineering offers a program leading to the degree of Doctor
                        of Philosophy (PhD) with a major in Engineering and concentrations in civil, computer,
                        electrical, mechanical engineering and engineering physics. In addition the College
                        offers a course of study leading to a degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) with a
                        major in Biomedical Engineering through a joint academic program with the Department
                        of Orthopaedic Surgery and Biomedical Engineering at The University of Tennessee Health
                        Science Center.
                     
                     
                     Program objectives are the ability to: (1) apply advanced knowledge of mathematics,
                        physical sciences, and engineering principles to the solution of practical engineering
                        problems; (2) meet or exceed the needs and expectations of public and private sector
                        employers for PhD graduates; and (3) pursue additional advanced studies if so desired.
                     
                     
                     Admission Requirements
                     
                     Applicants will be considered for admission to the doctoral program based upon a common
                        set of criteria. These are the applicant's educational background, Graduate Record
                        Examination (GRE) scores, grade point average (GPA), and three letters of recommendation.
                        The GPA used is either the cumulative or the last 60 semester hours of applicable
                        courses earned toward a degree.
                     
                     
                     In most cases, applicants will be considered for admission after completion of a masters
                        degree. However, in certain cases, highly qualified applicants will be considered
                        for admission to the doctoral program after the attainment of a bachelors degree.
                        It may be suggested that the student complete a masters degree while in pursuit of
                        the doctoral degree.
                     
                     
                     In addition to the above requirements, all applicants must submit an application for
                        admission to The University of Memphis along with three letters of recommendation
                        from previous instructors/professors attesting to the applicant's academic ability
                        and potential for success in a doctoral program. Applicants whose native language
                        is other than English must have a competitive score on the Test of English as a Foreign
                        Language (TOEFL) or The International English Language Testing System (IELTS). The
                        department of study for an applicant whose highest degree is from an international
                        university may require that their credentials be evaluated. The college and/or department
                        of study will accept evaluations done by any credentialing agency listed on the National
                        Association of Credential Evaluation Services web site (http://www.naces.org). A course-by
                        course report is required.
                     
                     
                     The above represent the minimum acceptable admission requirements. In addition to
                        meeting the College minimum admission requirements, applicants must meet admission
                        criteria established by their department or program of study.
                     
                     
                     English Conditional Admission: International students are required to demonstrate a strong grasp of the English
                        language before admission into graduate programs. Conditional admission may be granted
                        depending on individual academic departmental policy. If English conditional admission
                        is offered, students will need to register for English skills assessment and take
                        instructional sessions (if required as a result of that assessment) through the University's
                        Intensive English for Internationals (IEI) program (http://www.memphis.edu/iei). Upon
                        successful completion of the requisite sessions, as determined by IEI, the student's
                        English skills will be considered up to standard and the TOEFL/IELTS requirement may
                        be waived depending on specific academic department policy. The student can then proceed
                        into their graduate academic program. Please note that in order to have a complete
                        application packet, students seeking English conditional admission will need to simultaneously
                        apply for the IEI program through the link above and to the Graduate School ( www.memphis.edu/graduateadmissions ).
                     
                     
                     Please note that a student cannot be a graduate assistant (GA) until they have been
                        fully admitted and have begun their graduate academic program. Please review your
                        academic program department's website and graduate catalog entries to determine if
                        English conditional admission is offered. Questions can be directed to the program's
                        graduate coordinator. Students will pay IEI fees until they meet the language criterion.
                        If courses are taken outside of IEI, the student will be charged additional tuition
                        at the regular rate.
                     
                     
                     Depending on the applicant's educational background, the Advisory Committee for the
                        individual graduate student may require additional coursework to prepare the student
                        for doctoral studies. The Advisory Committee is composed of Graduate Faculty from
                        the College. The Department Chair, the Director of Graduate Studies for the College
                        and the Graduate School will review and approve the Committee. In unusual circumstances where the above admission requirements cannot be met, an
                        applicant may seek exceptions by contacting the Director of Graduate Studies for the
                        college. Applicants are further advised that the College reserves the right to deny some applications
                        for admissions because of limited faculty availability and physical facilities to
                        accommodate student research interests.
                     
                     
                     Retention Requirements
                     
                     A student will be retained continuously in the program until completion of the degree
                        providing the following conditions are met:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        All students will be required to maintain a grade point average (GPA) of at least
                           3.00. Should the student’s GPA fall below that mark, a period of one semester or one
                           full summer term will be allowed to correct the deficiency. Failure to regain the
                           minimum 3.00 is considered sufficient reason for being dropped from the program. This
                           period may, at the discretion of the student’s advisory committee, be extended one
                           additional semester or full summer term. If the GPA at the end of this extension is
                           still below 3.00, the student will be dismissed from the program.
                        
                        
                        Accumulation of more than 7 semester hours of cumulative graduate coursework with
                           a grade of "C+" or lower will result in dismissal from the program, i.e., a student
                           who accumulates 6 hours of graduate coursework with a grade of "C+" or lower in a
                           masters program is permitted only one additional hour with a grade of "C+" or lower.
                        
                        
                        All students are required to complete a comprehensive examination with at least a
                           minimum passing score on the written portion and a satisfactory performance on the
                           oral portion of the exam. A second and final attempt to pass this examination may
                           be granted by the student’s Advisory Committee; failure will result in mandatory dismissal
                           from the program.
                        
                        
                        All students must demonstrate reportable activity and progress on their research project
                           to their advisory committee each fall and spring semester after dissertation hours
                           are started. This reportable activity should also be submitted in writing to the Department
                           Chair.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Grade point averages above are based on a 4.00 grading system where A = 4.00. Students
                        presenting transcripts using a different system will be held to similar standards.
                     
                     
                     Graduation Requirements
                     
                     General Requirements: Each student must earn at least 72 semester hours beyond the
                        bachelors degree or 42 beyond the masters degree (see Table 1A). Students entering
                        with a bachelors degree can apply up to 24 semester hours of dissertation credit toward
                        these requirements. Students entering with a masters degree can apply up to 18 hours
                        of dissertation credit. Early in each student's program of study, the Director of
                        Graduate Studies, upon recommendation of the Departmental Chair, will approve an Advisory
                        Committee composed of Graduate Faculty in the College. The Advisory Committee will
                        guide the student's dissertation research and recommend coursework to support that
                        research endeavor.
                     
                     
                     For students admitted with a bachelors degree, at least 48 of the 72 semester hours
                        required, including dissertation and research credit, must be in the student's concentration.
                        No more than 12 semester hours of credit for 6000 level courses will count toward
                        the PhD degree. (See Table 1B)
                     
                     
                     For students admitted with a masters degree, at least 30 of the 42 semester hours
                        required, including dissertation and research credit, must be in the student's concentration.
                        No more than 6 semester hours of credit for 6000 level courses will count toward the
                        PhD degree.
                     
                     
                     Table 1A) Doctoral Program Options
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Option
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Total Credit Hours
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Course Hours  (excluding Dissertation)
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Hours of Dissertation (9000 course)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Post Bachelor's Degree (BS)
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 72
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 48
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 24
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Post Master's Degree (MS)
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 42
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 24
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 18
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Table 1B) Doctoral Program Course Hours
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Option
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Course Hours (excluding dissertation)
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Maximum hours of dissertation (9000 courses)
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Maximum hours at 6000
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum hours at 7000/8000
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum hours at  7000/8000 in concentration
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Post Bachelor's Degree (BS)
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 48
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 24
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 12
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 36
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 24
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Post Master's Degree (MS)
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 24
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 18
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 6
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 18
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 12
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Residency Requirements: A minimum of 18 semester hours must be earned while the student
                        is in continuous residence. This may be done in two regular consecutive semesters.
                        If the student is retained as a graduate assistant, the residency requirement may
                        be met over a single continuous twelve-month period provided the student completes
                        18 semester hours in two successive regular semesters. A student is not eligible to
                        complete the residency requirement until a minimum of 18 semester hours of graduate
                        study have been successfully completed.
                     
                     
                     Mathematics Requirements: Based on the qualifying examination required of all The
                        University of Memphis doctoral students, the advisory committee may stipulate that
                        appropriate mathematics courses be made a part of the student's program.
                     
                     
                     Examination Requirements: All students must take a qualifying examination in accordance
                        with University policy outlined under Minimum Requirements for Doctoral Degrees in
                        this catalog. This examination, which is intended to determine the student's mastery
                        of broad fundamental concepts, will be typically given only after the student has
                        completed between 9 to 27 semester hours of graduate study. For students entering
                        the program with a masters degree, the exam will occur early in their PhD program
                        as directed by the student's Advisor and Advisory Committee. The results will be used
                        to prescribe the remainder of the student's academic program, and successful completion
                        of the qualifying exam is required for admission to candidacy as a doctoral student.
                     
                     
                     The examination will generally be given in written form. However, the student’s committee
                        may require an oral session before making a final decision on the student’s qualification
                        to continue his/her studies.
                     
                     
                     After the final semester of coursework, the student will be required to successfully
                        complete written and oral comprehensive examinations that will ascertain the student’s
                        mastery of the theoretical material that will underlie the dissertation topic. The
                        student's Advisory Committee will conduct this oral comprehensive exam.
                     
                     
                     At the completion of the dissertation, the student must defend the work before the
                        advisory committee and other interested members of the university faculty who may
                        care to question the results of the research. NOTE: Students should familiarize themselves
                        with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write.
                     
                     
                     Course Requirements: Nine semester hours of major mathematics, physical science and
                        engineering principles core courses that integrate their doctoral experience are required
                        of all doctoral students. This core is developed by the student's graduate Advisory
                        Committee. Each concentration requires a minimum of 48 semester hours of coursework
                        post Bachelor's Degree (and 24 post Master's Degree) plus research comprising the
                        dissertation hours in the chosen field of study. Each student's program of study will
                        be developed with the student's Advisory Committee.
                     
                     
                     For the Engineering Physics concentration, 15 hours in Engineering courses for post-BS
                        and 9 hours in Engineering courses for post-MS candidates are required. Similarly,
                        24 hours in Physics for post-BS and 9 hours in Physics for post-MS are required. The
                        graduate committee which will be a composition of College of Engineering faculty and
                        Physics Department faculty and this committee will determine the specific Physics
                        and Engineering courses for this proposed concentration to effectively assist the
                        graduate student's academic and research experiences.
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/engr/index.php
