http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/engr/mech.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                              	Degree Planning
                              	
                        Mechnical Engineering
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Mechanical Engineering
                     
                     SUMANTA ACHARYA, PhD Chair Room 312, Engineering Science Building 901.678.2173 TEONG E. TAN, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Studies E-Mail: ttan@memphis.edu www.memphis.edu/me/
                     
                     
                     
                     I. The department of Mechanical Engineering offers a graduate program leading to the Master of Science degree with a major in
                        Mechanical Engineering.
                     
                     
                     Program objectives are: (1) ability to apply advanced knowledge of mathematics, physical
                        sciences, and engineering principles to the solution of practical engineering problems;
                        (2) meet or exceed the needs and expectations of public and private sector employers
                        for MS graduates; and (3) preparation to pursue additional advanced studies if so
                        desired. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School
                        (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) and the program requirements of the degree being pursued.
                     
                     
                     II. MS Degree Program
                     
                     A. Program Admission
                     
                     The Herff College of Engineering has established uniform admission criteria that identify
                        the pool of master’s level applicants from which the department evaluates and recommends
                        qualified applicants to be admitted.
                     
                     
                     Applicants whose highest degree is from a foreign university may be required to have
                        their credentials evaluated by any credentialing agency listed on the National Association
                        of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) web site ( http://www.naces.org/members.html ). In addition, GRE is required of all applicants.
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements
                     
                     A more detailed description of the information listed below will be given by the Coordinator
                        of Graduate Studies to students admitted into the Mechanical Engineering MS program.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Thesis Option: Successful completion of 30 semester hours to include 6 hours in MECH
                           7996 for thesis and 3 hours each in MECH 7341 and 7342. Of the remaining 18 hours,
                           no more than 9 hours of 6000-level MECH courses or collateral courses may be used
                           in satisfying degree requirements. Only courses in mathematics, the physical sciences,
                           or another engineering discipline may serve as collateral courses; each course must
                           receive prior approval by the departmental graduate coordinator for it to be used
                           in satisfying degree requirements. With prior approval, up to 3 hours of 7000-level
                           collateral courses may be used in satisfying degree requirements.
                        
                        
                        Non-Thesis Option: Successful completion of 33 semester hours total to include 3 hours
                           each in MECH 7341 and 7342. Of the remaining 27 hours, no more than 9 hours in 6000
                           level MECH or collateral courses may be used in satisfying degree requirements. Only
                           courses in mathematics, the physical sciences, or another engineering discipline may
                           serve as collateral courses; each course must receive prior approval by the departmental
                           graduate coordinator for it to be used in satisfying degree requirements. With prior
                           approval, up to 3 hours of 7000-level collateral courses may be used in satisfying
                           degree requirements. With prior approval, up to 3 hours of MECH 7992 may be used in
                           satisfying degree requirements.
                        
                        
                        The department's graduate coordinator may approve transfer credit of up to 12 credit
                           hours previously earned at another institution. For these hours to be used in satisfying
                           degree requirements, appropriate documentation must be provided by the student, and
                           approval granted, not later than the end of the student’s second semester of enrollment.
                        
                        
                        Students selecting the thesis option will be required to complete an independent research
                           project culminating in a masters thesis. Upon completion of the thesis, the student
                           must successfully pass an oral examination to assess mastery of the thesis topic and
                           to evaluate the student’s knowledge in mechanical engineering. Students should familiarize
                           themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before beginning to write.
                        
                        
                        Students selecting the non-thesis option must pass an oral comprehensive examination
                           to demonstrate mastery of mechanical engineering topics commensurate with the degree
                           to be awarded.
                        
                        
                        Graduate Assistants must enroll for at least 12 credit hours per semester. A limited
                           number of graduate assistantships are available; contact the departmental graduate
                           coordinator for applications.
                        
                        
                        Students who wish to take mechanical engineering courses must receive approval to
                           register after consultation with the departmental graduate coordinator or with the
                           faculty advisory committee.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     C. Retention Policy A student must maintain a GPA of 3.00 or higher throughout the program. If a student's
                        GPA is below 3.0, that student will be on probation during the following semester.
                        Failure to improve the GPA above 3.0 by the end of the probationary semester will
                        result in dismissal from the program.
                     
                     
                     D. Graduation Requirements
                     
                     Refer to "Minimum Degree Requirements--Masters Degrees" for University graduation requirements.
                     
                     
                     III. PhD Degree Program
                     
                     See the beginning of the College section for admission, retention, program objectives,
                        and graduation requirements. Note that all doctoral students must take MECH 8341 and
                        MECH 8342.  A more detailed description of the information will be given by the Coordinator
                        of Graduate Studies to students admitted into the Mechanical Engineering concentration.
                     
                     
                     Applicants whose highest degree is from a foreign university may be required to have
                        their credentials evaluated by any credentialing agency listed on the National Association
                        of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) web site ( http://www.naces.org/members.html ). In addition, GRE is required of all applicants.
                     
                     
                     IV. Graduate Certificate in Packaging Engineering
                     
                     The objectives of the certificate program are: (1). For local practitioners in the
                        packaging and distribution industry to refine their knowledge in packaging engineering,
                        (2). For other professionals with no prior packaging knowledge to look for a career
                        change, (3). For current full time graduate students to expand their engineering knowledge
                        or specialize their skills in packaging, and (4). For students with an undergraduate
                        degree for a transition into graduate school.  
                     
                     
                     A. Admissions Requirements
                     
                     The certificate program in packaging engineering can be pursued concurrently with
                        other graduate programs at the university. Applicants must have completed a bachelor’s
                        degree with a cumulative grade point average of at least 2.5 and satisfy admission
                        requirements of the Graduate School with the classification of “Graduate Certificate.” 
                        To apply for admission, the applicant must submit:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Transcripts of undergraduate degree program and any prior graduate study to Graduate
                           Admissions;
                        
                        
                        A letter describing intent to pursue the certificate and its relevance to career goals
                           to the Graduate Coordinator, Department of Mechanical Engineering;
                        
                        
                        Two letters of recommendation describing pertinent professional work experience when
                           seeking to waive a course prerequisite to the Graduate Coordinator, Department of
                           Mechanical Engineering.   
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements
                     
                     Successful completion of 9 hours of graduate credits distributed as follows, maintaining
                        a GPA of at least 3.0 and completing the program within three academic years, 
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Required courses, 6 hours:  MECH 6342, Introduction to Packaging Engineering  MECH 7391, Packaging Dynamics/Distribution Packaging  
                        
                        Research Project, 3 hours, registered under one of the listed courses and with approval
                           of the program director: MECH 7990, Engineering Practicum;                                                
                                               MECH 7391, Research Proposal; MECH 7992, Research Project;      MECH 7994, Independent Study, with a grade of B or better. 
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     All 9 credit hours may be shared with a Master’s program in the Department of Mechanical
                        Engineering upon the approval of the Advisory Committee. 
                     
                     
                     C. Graduation Requirements:
                     
                     
                        
                        Student must file “Apply to Graduate” with Graduate School at beginning of the semester
                           in which he/she will complete the 9-semester hour requirement;
                        
                        
                        A minimum grade of “B” or “S” in each course applicable to the certificate is required;
                        
                     
                     
                     Student must also submit a Candidacy Form to the Mechanical Engineering Graduate Coordinator
                        in order to verify information and collect approvals and signatures required for the
                        Graduate School.
                     
                     
                     V.   Accelerated B.S.M.E./M.S. Program in Mechanical Engineering  
                     
                     This program allows outstanding undergraduates to begin the coursework for the Master
                        of Science in Mechanical Engineering during their senior year. Students are encouraged
                        to begin planning to enter the Accelerated B.S.M.E./M.S. program early in their undergraduate
                        career, in consultation with their advisor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering. 
                     
                     
                     Working with the undergraduate and graduate academic coordinators, undergraduates
                        selected into this program begin a carefully tailored course of study which will allow
                        them to complete their B.S.M.E. degree while they also begin the coursework toward
                        their M.S.
                     
                     
                     To apply, students must have a minimum 3.25 grade point average, and must submit two
                        reference letters and a copy of their transcript to the Mechanical Engineering department.
                        Each applicant will complete an interview with the graduate academic coordinator in
                        mechanical engineering.
                     
                     
                     Students must also apply to the Graduate School for the accelerated B.S.M.E./M.S.
                        program, which allows them to take graduate courses in mechanical engineering. To
                        continue in the program past the B.S.M.E., students must apply for full admission
                        into the Graduate School and into the Mechanical Engineering department's M.S. program. 
                     
                     
                     Only in ABM programs, up to 9 hours of graduate course work may be applied to both
                        the undergraduate and graduate programs. However, any graduate coursework will not
                        apply to undergraduate GPA.
                     
                     
                     Click here for course descriptions
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/engr/mech.php
