http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/sph.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                              	Degree Planning
                              	
                        School of Public Health
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     School of Public Health
                     
                     LISA M. KLESGES, PhD Professor and Dean 236 Robison Hall 901.678.4501 MARIAN C. LEVY, DrPH Associate Professor and Assistant Dean 230 Robison Hall 901.678.4514 Email: sph-admin@memphis.edu www.memphis.edu/sph/
                     
                     
                     
                     I. Overview
                     
                     The School of Public Health is accredited by the Council on Education for Public Health
                        (CEPH). It is dedicated to excellence in education, research, and outreach to improve
                        public health and promote health equity by generating knowledge and translating research
                        discoveries in our community, our state, and throughout the world. We aspire to: (1)
                        Train the next generation of students in population health by providing the highest
                        quality education and practice opportunities in theories, approaches, methods, and
                        other substantive issues pertinent to public health; (2) Create an environment conducive
                        to interdisciplinary public health initiatives, with special emphasis on vulnerable
                        populations who suffer disproportionately from illness and disability; (3) Stimulate
                        collaboration with the community to develop effective partnerships in combating the
                        health challenges in our communities, city, state, and region; (4) Prepare future
                        leaders in public health by supporting interdisciplinary research focused on health
                        equity to develop behavioral, community, structural, and health services interventions
                        that address disparities; and (5) Inform public policy, disseminate health information,
                        and increase awareness of public health concerns through disease surveillance, needs
                        assessments, and program evaluation.
                     
                     
                     Degrees offered include the Master of Health Administration (MHA), the Master of Public
                        Health (MPH), the PhD in Social and Behavioral Sciences, the PhD in Epidemiology,
                        and the PhD in Health Systems and Policy. Admission to each graduate program in the
                        School of Public Health is handled separately. Each has its own admission criteria,
                        and application must be made for a particular program before an applicant is considered
                        for that program. Deadlines are November 1 for the Spring term and April 1 for the
                        Fall term (MPH program) April 1 for the Fall term (PhD programs and the MHA program). The
                        MHA and three PhD programs admit new students for fall term only but will consider
                        qualified transfer students for spring semester admissions.
                     
                     
                     All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School
                        (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      II. Master of Health Administration (MHA) Program
                     
                     MARK HENDRICKS, MHA Instructor and  Director of Masters Programs 116 Robison Hall 901.678.2982
                     
                     DAVID BURCHFIELD, PhD Associate Professor and Graduate Coordinator  130 Robison Hall 901.678.3361
                     
                     
                     Email: mha-admin@memphis.edu/
                     
                     The School of Public Health is proud to have one of only 86 MHA programs in North
                        America that are accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Management
                        Education (CAHME), and the only CAHME-accredited program in the State of Tennessee.
                        The MHA degree program educates students interested in preparing for or furthering
                        careers in a variety of health care settings, including hospital, ambulatory care,
                        and managed care organizations. The program combines interdisciplinary academic preparation
                        with health industry experience.
                     
                     
                     Program objectives are: (1) development of strategic thinking, legal and ethical decision
                        making, finance, economics, and research, related to health administration; and (2)
                        development of leadership skills in team-oriented environments.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admission
                     
                     Applicants must receive favorable endorsement from the health administration faculty.
                        Admission will be based on applicable test scores (Graduate Record Examination [GRE]
                        or Graduate Management Aptitude Test [GMAT]); undergraduate grade point average; previous
                        education and/or experience; and an ability to articulate career goals and education
                        objectives via a letter of intent. Two letters of recommendation are also required,
                        one of which should be from a professor or instructor familiar with the student’s
                        prior academic history and abilities.
                     
                     
                     Applicants already holding a doctoral degree or its professional equivalent obtained
                        in the United States may be exempt from the GRE requirement. Professional school standardized
                        test scores (MCAT, DAT, and LSAT) taken in the past five years may be substituted
                        for the GRE by applicants who are enrolled in or who have already earned post-baccalaureate
                        degrees in areas such as medicine, dentistry, or law.
                     
                     
                     Applicants whose native language is not English are required to submit acceptable
                        scores on the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL).
                     
                     
                     B. Program Prerequisites
                     
                     Students are accepted from all undergraduate disciplines and professional areas; however,
                        the program determines if students must successfully complete up to nine hours of
                        prerequisite course work before being fully admitted into the program.
                     
                     
                     C. Program Requirements
                     
                     The student is required to complete a minimum of fifty-three (53) semester hours.
                        Forty-seven (47) hours are taken in the core curriculum and six (6) hours of electives
                        chosen in consultation with an advisor. The six (6) hours of electives allow the student
                        to extend basic knowledge gained in the core curriculum and can include such areas
                        as health administration, public health, economics, marketing, finance, public policy,
                        public administration, and management. The comprehensive examination must be successfully
                        completed during the semester in which the student expects to graduate.
                     
                     
                      III. Master of Public Health (MPH) Degree Program
                     
                     MARK HENDRICKS, MHA Instructor, Director of Masters Programs and Graduate Coordinator  116 Robison Hall 901.678.2982 Email: mph-admin@memphis.edu
                     
                     The mission of the CEPH accredited Master of Public Health (MPH) program is to provide
                        a stimulating academic environment in a metropolitan setting that supports excellence
                        and innovation in education, research, and service to enhance the lives and health
                        of individuals, families, and communities in the Mid-South. Program objectives are:
                        (1) Prepare future leaders in the field of public health by providing the highest
                        quality education and practice opportunities in theories, approaches, methods, and
                        other substantive issues pertinent to public health; (2) Create and nurture an environment
                        conducive to interdisciplinary public health initiatives, with special emphasis on
                        vulnerable populations who suffer disproportionately from illness and disability;
                        (3) Pursue innovative and rigorous research on critical public health issues to prevent
                        disease and injury, promote well-being, and foster overall physical and mental health;
                        (4) Stimulate collaboration with the community to develop effective partnerships in
                        combating the health challenges in our communities, city, state, and region; and (5)
                        Inform public policy, disseminate health information, and increase awareness of public
                        health concerns through disease surveillance, needs assessments, and program evaluation.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admission A multi-disciplinary faculty admissions committee determines admission to the MPH
                        program. Criteria for the selection process are broad because of the wide range of
                        backgrounds from which students may come. Prior background in public health or health
                        care is not necessary for admission, but may be considered in the admission process.
                        The following is necessary for application:
                     
                     
                     Applicants must hold a bachelor or graduate degree from an accredited college or university
                        with an undergraduate cumulative grade point average of 3.00 or higher (on a 4.00
                        scale) or a graduate cumulative grade point average of 3.5 or higher in the major
                        subject area. Current Graduate Record Examination (GRE) scores from within the past
                        five years are required.
                     
                     
                     Applicants already holding a doctoral degree or its professional equivalent obtained
                        in the United States may be exempt from the GRE requirement. Professional school standardized
                        test scores (MCAT, DAT, and LSAT) may be substituted for the GRE by applicants who
                        are enrolled in or who have already earned post-baccalaureate degrees in areas such
                        as medicine, dentistry, or law. Applicants whose native language is not English are
                        required to submit acceptable scores on the Test of English as a Foreign Language
                        (TOEFL).
                     
                     
                     Letters of recommendation from at least three persons familiar with the applicant’s
                        academic background or experience in public health related issues, specifying in detail
                        the applicant’s capabilities for graduate study and for future performance as a public
                        health professional, are required. At least one letter from a former professor or
                        instructor is required.
                     
                     
                     Applicants must also submit a statement of purpose in approximately 400-500 words
                        indicating his or her present interests and career goals, including why s/he wants
                        to pursue an MPH degree.
                     
                     
                     B. Program Prerequisites All MPH applicants will be expected to have adequate preparation in the sciences,
                        including at least one college-level course in general biology (including human biology),
                        mathematics (e.g., calculus or algebra), and a social science (e.g., sociology, anthropology,
                        or psychology). Basic computer skills are also expected. Courses in health-related
                        fields such as anatomy, physiology, nutrition, chemistry, physics, and statistics
                        are not mandated, but are strongly recommended. Previous professional or other relevant
                        work experience is also highly desirable, but not required.
                     
                     
                     C. Program Requirements:  Completion of a total of 42 hours, including 18 hours of core course requirements;
                        18 hours of electives, 3 hours of practicum/field experience, and 3 hours of a culmination
                        experience in the form of either a thesis or master's project seminar. Students may
                        choose a concentration in any of the following areas: Biostatistics, Environmental
                        Science, Epidemiology, Health Systems Management, or Social and Behavioral Sciences.
                     
                     
                     Core courses include: HADM 7105 Health Policy and the Organization of Health Services (3) PUBH 7120 Environmental Health I (3) PUBH 7150 Biostatistical Methods I (3) PUBH 7160 Social and Behavioral Science Principles (3) PUBH 7170 Epidemiology in Public Health (3) PUBH 7180 Foundations of Public Health (3)
                     
                     
                     Concentration courses include: Biostatistics PUBH 7309 Applied Survival Analysis in Public Health (3) PUBH 7311 Applied Categorical Data Analysis (3) PUBH 7152 Biostatistical Methods II (3) PUBH 7310 Mixed Model Regression Analysis  (3) Environmental Health PUBH 7124 Environmental Toxicology (3) PUBH 7128 Environmental Policy and Decision-Making (3) PUBH 7129 Environmental Sampling and Analysis (3) PUBH 7126 Principles of Exposure and Risk Assessment (3) Epidemiology PUBH 7152 Biostatistical Methods II (3) PUBH 7141 Epidemiologic Survey Method (3) PUBH 7172 Epidemiology in Public Health II (3) Plus any one of the following 4 applied “topics “ courses: PUBH 7140 Epidemiology of Chronic Disease (3) PUBH 7174 Epidemiology in Public Health III (3) PUBH 7442 Cancer Epidemiology (3) PUBH 7443 Infectious Disease Epidemiology (3) Social and Behavioral Sciences PUBH 7014 Public Health Communication (3)* PUBH 7130 Social Determinants of Health (3) PUBH 7132 Health Program Evaluation (3) PUBH 7340 Behavioral Intervention Development (3) * PUBH 7345 (Health Literacy) may be substituted for PUBH 7014. Health Systems and Policy PUBH 7710 Health Care Economics (3) HADM 7109 Health Information Systems (3) HADM 7204 Quality and Outcomes Management in Health Care (3) PUBH 7502 Health Policy, Theory & Methods (3)
                     
                     
                     Electives (6 hours) will be taken with the approval of the faculty advisor.
                     
                     Possible electives include courses within the concentration areas as well as: BIOL 7080 Public Health Microbiology (3) COMM 7012 Seminar in Health Communication (3) HADM 7107 Health Care Ethics (3) HADM 7109 Health Care Information Systems (3) NURS 7811 Global Perspectives on Nursing and Health Policy (3) NUTR 6602 Community Nutrition (3) NUTR 6902 Study Tour in Foods and Nutrition (3) NUTR 7204 Life Span Nutrition (3) PUBH 7104 Large Data Sets in Public Health (3) PUBH 7310 Mixed Model Regression Analysis PUBH 7311 Applied Categorical Data Analysis PUBH 7333 Addictive Behaviors PUBH 7334 Community Based Participatory Research Methods PUBH 7335 Structural and Environmental Issues in Urban Communities PUBH 7336 Women’s Health PUBH 7337 Eating Behaviors, Nutrition, and the Family PUBH 7338 Critical Issues in Global Health PUBH 7339 Translational Research Methods in Population Health PUBH 7340 Behavioral Intervention Development PUBH 7341 Physical Activity and Public Health PUBH 7342 Epidemiology of Minority and Ethnic Populations PUBH 7343 Tobacco Use: Causes, Consequences, and Control PUBH 7345 Health Literacy PUBH 7346 Public Mental Health PUBH 7347 Qualitative Methods in Health Research PUBH 7400 Special Problems PUBH 7445 Genetic Epidemiology PUBH 7501 Health Systems Organization PUBH 7502 Health Policy, Theory and Methods PUBH 7601 Public Health Preparedness and Response PUBH 7603 Public Health Leadership in Emergency Response PUBH 7309 Applied Survival Analysis in Public Health Other courses may serve as electives; students should check with their advisors
                     
                     
                     Satisfy completion of PUBH 7985 Practicum/Field Experience (3) Satisfy completion of PUBH 7996 Thesis (3) or PUBH 7992 Master's Project Seminar (3).
                        NOTE: Students choosing the thesis option should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. Pass comprehensive examination.
                     
                     
                     D. Retention Requirements All students enrolled in the MPH program are expected to attain high academic achievement
                        in all courses taken. The following criteria will be used to determine retention status
                        of students:
                     
                     
                     Students having been admitted unconditionally who maintain a cumulative GPA of 3.00
                        or higher will be considered in good standing if not more than 2 (two) grades of 2.00
                        or lower has been earned.
                     
                     
                     Students must maintain a GPA of 3.00. In accordance with the Graduate School guidelines,
                        any student not meeting this requirement will be placed on probation. The MPH Graduate
                        Coordinator will review each student's academic record to determine whether to request
                        permission from the Graduate School to allow a student who has not maintained a 3.00
                        GPA to continue to enroll in classes while on probation. The Graduate Coordinator
                        must approve courses for a student on probation. Probationary status continues even
                        if the student has a grade under appeal. If a student remains on probation for two
                        consecutive semesters or remains on probation after taking three courses (9 semester
                        hours) without raising the overall GPA to 3.00, the student will be suspended from
                        the program. Appeals of suspension must be submitted in writing to the Director of
                        the MPH program.
                     
                     
                     A student who has been suspended from the MPH program will be denied enrollment in
                        PUBH courses subsequent to suspension.
                     
                     
                     Elective courses applied to the MPH program requirements must have the advisor's approval.
                     
                     IV. Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Program in Social and Behavioral Sciences
                     
                     SATISH KEDIA, PhD Professor and Graduate Program Coordinator 205 Robison Hall 901.678.1433 Email: sph-admin@memphis.edu
                     
                     The PhD degree in Social and Behavioral Sciences is the highest academic degree for
                        individuals planning to pursue scholarly careers in this discipline. This program
                        is designed for those who intend to teach and conduct original research utilizing
                        rigorous scientific theories and methods to understand and influence the social and
                        behavioral determinants of population health risk factors and outcomes. Graduates
                        of the program are prepared to conduct innovative, interdisciplinary, and translational
                        research in community settings with an emphasis on vulnerable populations, and to
                        design, implement, administer, and evaluate public health interventions and policies.
                        The program will emphasize urban health and health disparities issues in Tennessee
                        and in the Mid-South region.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admission
                     
                     A research-based master’s degree in a health-related or social/behavioral field is
                        required for admission. Applicants who possess professional master’s degrees (e.g.,
                        MPH) will be considered if they have appropriate research experience, such as having
                        completed a thesis during master’s training, or being employed in a professional research
                        position. Applicants must show potential for further study by having maintained a
                        GPA of at least a 3.0 average in their master's-level coursework. An acceptable, competitive
                        score on the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) general examination is required. Applicants
                        already holding a doctoral degree or its professional equivalent may be exempted from
                        the GRE requirement. Other professional school standardized test scores (MCAT, DAT,
                        or LSAT,) may be substituted for the GRE by applicants who are working toward or who
                        have already earned post-baccalaureate degrees in medicine, dentistry, management,
                        or law from a United States accredited academic institution. Applicants whose native
                        language is not English will be required to submit acceptable scores on the Test of
                        English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL IBT).
                     
                     
                     Letters of recommendation from three individuals (at least two letters from former
                        professors or instructors but fewer may be acceptable in extenuating circumstances)
                        familiar with the applicant’s academic background or experience in public health related
                        issues, specifying in detail the applicant’s capabilities for graduate study and for
                        future performance as a public health scholar, are required. Applicants must also
                        submit a personal statement of purpose of approximately 750 to 1000 words indicating
                        his/her present interests and career goals, including how the PhD in Social and Behavioral
                        Sciences will prepare the candidate to achieve these goals.
                     
                     
                     Materials submitted will be reviewed by the faculty admissions committee. Admissions
                        decisions are made on the overall quality of the applicant’s scholarship and academic
                        ability (based on GPAs, GRE scores, undergraduate and graduate coursework completed,
                        research conducted, relevant work experience, and recommendations) as well as the
                        applicant’s “fit” for the program in terms of academic background, research interests,
                        and career goals. Some applicants may be invited for a face-to-face or telephone interview
                        with representatives of the Admissions Committee.
                     
                     
                     B. Program Prerequisites All doctoral students are required to fulfill the following pre-requisites (9 credit
                        hours) or document equivalent coursework. These three courses will not count toward
                        the required 63 hours of doctoral study: PUBH 8150: Biostatistics Methods I; PUBH
                        8170: Epidemiology in Public Health; and PUBH 8160: Social and Behavioral Science
                        Principles.
                     
                     
                     C. Program Requirements
                     
                     Credit Hours: A minimum of 63 semester hours of graduate credit beyond the master’s degree is required
                        for the PhD in Social and Behavioral Sciences. All work for doctoral credit must be
                        approved by, and must be completed at a level of performance satisfactory to, the
                        graduate faculty of the Division of Social and Behavioral Sciences. Students also
                        may take coursework for degree credit outside the School of Public Health with advisor
                        approval.
                     
                     
                     Transfer Credit: Graduate School regulations must be followed regarding accepting academic credits
                        from another institution. Courses proposed for transfer credit must meet the following
                        two requirements. (a) The Tennessee Board of Regents requires a minimum of 750 contact
                        minutes for each semester credit (2250 for a 3-hour course). (b) The Tennessee Conference
                        of Graduate Schools requires a minimum of 3 hours of class work per week for 3 hours
                        of credit. Grades earned at another institution will not be computed in the University
                        cumulative grade point average, nor will they be accepted for transfer, unless they
                        are "B" (3.0) or better. No credit will be transferred unless it meets with the approval
                        of the major advisor or program graduate coordinator.
                     
                     
                     Enrollment: Full-time students are expected to carry a minimum of 9 credits per semester, and
                        to devote full time during their enrollment to the pursuit of degree-related activities.
                        Full-time students with graduate assistantships are required to enroll for 9 credits
                        each semester. Part-time students are expected to carry a minimum of 6 credits per
                        semester, unless permission is granted from the advisor for a reduced course load.
                     
                     
                     Research: All doctoral students are expected to be active in research collaboratively with
                        members of the Division faculty each semester they are enrolled. Students may receive
                        credit for research involvement by enrolling in PUBH 8800 (Guided Research in Public
                        Health).
                     
                     
                     Comprehensive Examination: Upon completion of required coursework and prior to enrolling in dissertation hours
                        (PUBH 9000), the student must successfully complete a written and oral comprehensive
                        examination. The examination will assess mastery of areas covered in the student’s
                        program. The content of the examination for each student will consist of core competencies
                        in public health, social and behavioral sciences applied to public health, and dissertation
                        topic. The student’s advisory committee will be responsible for organizing and evaluating
                        the comprehensive examination.
                     
                     
                     Dissertation: To fulfill the requirements for the PhD in Social and Behavioral Sciences, the student
                        must write and defend a dissertation. The dissertation must adhere to the format outlined
                        by the Graduate School. The dissertation topic will be determined by the student in
                        consultation with the advisor with input from the advisory committee.
                     
                     
                     Residency Requirements: The last thirty semester hours of credit for the doctoral degree must be earned at
                        the University of Memphis. Only the number of dissertation hours accepted by the program
                        toward the degree will be accepted as part of the last 30 hours.
                     
                     
                     Curriculum Requirements: The PhD in Social and Behavioral Sciences requires completion of at least 63 semester
                        credit hours beyond the master’s degree. Required courses are organized into four
                        cores plus electives and dissertation, as described below:
                     
                     
                     Social and Behavioral Sciences Advanced Core: 18 credit hours      The following are required courses:     PUBH 8014 Public Health Communication (3)     PUBH 8130 Social Determinants of Health (3)     PUBH 8131 Social and Behavioral Science Policy Development (3)     PUBH 8132 Health Program Evaluation (3)     PUBH 8340 Behavioral Intervention Development (3)     PUBH 8161 Advanced Psychosocial Theories of Health and Health Behavior (3)
                     
                     
                     Doctoral Seminar Core: 6 credit hours     PUBH 8900: Science, Theory, and PH Research (3)     PUBH 8901: Professional Development for PUBH Doctoral Students (3)
                     
                     
                     Research Methods Core: 9 credit hours (Select two quantitative courses and one qualitative course)     Quantitative Courses (select 2)     HADM 8106 Health Services Research (3)     PUBH 8104 Large Data Sets in Public Health Research (3)     PUBH 8141 Epidemiologic Survey Methods (3)     PUBH 8172 Epidemiology in Public Health II (3)     PUBH 8174 Epidemiology in Public Health III (3)     PUBH 8339 Translational Research Methods in Population Health (3)     PUBH 8444 Fundamentals of Public Health Surveillance (3)     PUBH 8450 Randomized Clinical Trials (3)     PSYC 8301 Research Design and Methods (3)     Qualitative Courses (select 1)     PSYC 8309 Focus Group Research in Psychology (3)     PUBH 8334 Community Based Participatory Research Methods (3)     PUBH 8347 Qualitative Methods in Health Research (3)
                     
                     
                     Biostatistics Core: 6 credit hours     Required:     PUBH 8152 Biostatistical Methods II (3)     Select one additional course:     PSYC 8304 Measurement Theory and Psychometrics (3)     PUBH 8305 Quantitative Methods of Review in Research (3)     PSYC 8308 Applied Multivariate Statistics (3)     PUBH 8306 Linear Structural Modeling (3)     PUBH 8310 Mixed Model Regression Analysis (3)     PUBH 8311 Applied Categorical Data Analysis (3)
                     
                     
                     Electives: 15 Credit hours At least two of the five elective courses should be taken from within the public health
                        offerings. Electives must be approved by the major advisor. Students entering the
                        program with a completed MPH or other health-related graduate degree may request a
                        waiver for courses that have been completed.     Public Health Electives:     PUBH 8140 Epidemiology of Chronic Disease (3)     PUBH 8333 Addictive Behaviors (3)     PUBH 8335 Structural and Environmental Issues in Urban Communities (3)     PUBH 8336 Women’s Health (3)     PUBH 8337 Eating Behaviors, Nutrition, and the Family (3)     PUBH 8338 Critical Issues in Global Health (3)     PUBH 8341 Physical Activity and Public Health (3)     PUBH 8342 Epidemiology of Minority and Ethnic Populations (3)     PUBH 8343 Tobacco Use: Causes, Consequences, and Control (3)     PUBH 8345 Health Literacy (3)     PUBH 8346 Public Mental Health (3)     PUBH 8400 Special Problems (3)     PUBH 8442 Cancer Epidemiology (3)     PUBH 8443 Infectious Disease Epidemiology (3)     PUBH 8445 Genetic Epidemiology (3)     PUBH 8501 Health Systems Organizations (3)     PUBH 8502 Health Policy, Theory and Methods (3)     PUBH 8800 Guided Research in Public Health* (1-3) *Up to 9 credit hours of PUBH 8800 may be applied toward the Electives requirement.     Other Electives:     COMM 8016 Health Communication Campaigns (3)     EDPR 8109 Infant Development (3)     EDPR 8110 Early Childhood Development (3)     EDPR 8165 Social Development in Children (3)     ENGL 8014 Workshop on Public Health Care Writing (3)     ENGL 8819 Rhetoric of Science (3)     ESCI 8613 GIS and Human Health (3)     PSYC 8217 Social Psychology (3)     PSYC 8416 Child Psychopathology (3)     PSYC 8506 Grant Writing (3)     SOCI 8851 Medical Sociology (3)
                     
                     
                     Dissertation: 9 credit hours Dissertation and Final Examination: The dissertation is viewed as the capstone of
                        the student’s academic training, reflecting the student’s capacity for independent
                        research. Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before beginning to write. Upon completion of an independent dissertation research
                        project acceptable to the faculty, each student will take a final oral examination
                        oriented toward, but not exclusively on, the student’s dissertation research and major
                        area of specialization. Students are required to take 9 credit hours toward their dissertation at The University
                           of Memphis .
                     
                     
                     V. Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Program in Epidemiology
                     
                     FAWAZ MZAYEK, MD, PhD Associate Professor and Graduate Program Coordinator 300 Robinson Hall 901.678.1662 Email:  sph-admin@memphis.edu
                     
                      
                     
                     The School of Public Health at The University of Memphis offers a PhD degree in Epidemiology,
                        the highest academic degree for individuals planning to pursue scholarly careers in
                        this discipline. This program is designed for those who intend to teach and conduct
                        original research utilizing rigorous scientific theories and methods, as well as be
                        active in advocating and promoting health policies and intervention programs to improve
                        the general health of societies. The program will emphasize urban health and health
                        disparities issues in Tennessee and in the Mid-South region.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admission
                     
                     A master's degree is required for admission. Applicants must show potential for further
                        study by having maintained a GPA of at least a 3.0 average in their master's-level
                        coursework. The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) completed within the past five years
                        is required. Competitive scores on the GRE are considered in the admissions decision.
                        Applicants already holding a doctoral degree or its professional equivalent may be
                        exempted from the GRE requirement. Other professional school standardized test scores
                        (MCAT, DAT, or LSAT,) may be substituted for the GRE by applicants who are working
                        toward or who have already earned post-baccalaureate degrees for example, in medicine,
                        dentistry, management, or law. Test scores must be sent directly to Graduate Admissions
                        by the testing agency. The University of Memphis institution code number for reporting
                        ETS scores is R-1459.
                     
                     
                     All applicants who will be attending the University on a visa and who are not native
                        speakers of English and are not graduates of the University of Memphis must supply
                        a minimum score of 96 (80%) on the computer-based Test of English as a Foreign Language
                        (TOEFL iBT), or an equivalent score on the paper-based test (TOEFL PBT).
                     
                     
                     Letters of recommendation from three individuals (at least one letter from a former
                        professor or instructor) familiar with the applicant's academic background or experience
                        in public health related issues, specifying in detail the applicant's capabilities
                        for graduate study and for future performance as a public health scholar, are required.
                        Applicants must also submit a personal statement of approximately 750 to 1000 words
                        indicating his/her present interests and career goals, including how the PhD in Epidemiology
                        will prepare the candidate to achieve these goals.
                     
                     
                     Materials submitted will be reviewed by the faculty admissions committee. Admissions
                        decisions are made on the overall quality of the applicant's scholarship and academic
                        ability (based on GPAs, GRE scores, undergraduate and graduate coursework completed,
                        research conducted, and recommendations) as well as the applicant's "fit" for the
                        program in terms of research interests and career goals.
                     
                     
                     B. Program Prerequisites
                     
                     All doctoral students are required to fulfill the following pre-requisites (6 credit
                        hours) or document equivalent coursework. These two courses will not count toward
                        the required 63 hours of doctoral study:
                     
                     
                     a) PUBH 8150: Biostatistics Methods I (3) b) PUBH 8170: Epidemiology in Public Health I (3)
                     
                     
                     C. Program Requirements
                     
                     Credit Hours: To qualify for graduation, students need to complete a minimum of 54 semester hours
                        of graduate course work beyond the master's degree plus 9 hours of PUBH 9000 (Doctoral
                        Dissertation), for a minimum of 63 graduate credit hours. No more than 9 hours of
                        dissertation credits will count toward the degree.
                     
                     
                     Transfer credit: Graduate School regulations must be followed regarding accepting academic credits
                        from another institution. Courses proposed for transfer credit must meet the following
                        two requirements. (a) The Tennessee Board of Regents requires a minimum of 750 contact
                        minutes for each semester credit (2250 for a 3-hour course). (b) The Tennessee Conference
                        of Graduate Schools requires a minimum of 3 hours of class work per week for 3 hours
                        of credit. Grades earned at another institution will not be computed in the University
                        cumulative grade point average, nor will they be accepted for transfer, unless they
                        are "B" (3.0) or better. No credit will be transferred unless it meets with the approval
                        of the major advisor or program graduate coordinator.
                     
                     
                     Enrollment: Full-time students are expected to carry a minimum of 9 credits per semester, and
                        to devote full time during their enrollment to the pursuit of degree-related activities.
                        Full-time students with graduate assistantships are required to enroll for 9 credits
                        each semester. Part-time students are expected to carry a minimum of 6 credits per
                        semester, unless permission is granted from the advisor for a reduced course load.
                     
                     
                     Research: All doctoral students are expected to be active in research collaboratively with
                        members of the Division faculty each semester they are enrolled. Students may receive
                        credit for research involvement by enrolling in PUBH 8800 (Guided Research in Public
                        Health).
                     
                     
                     Retention requirements: Students must earn a grade of B (3. 0) or higher in all required courses. The PhD
                        program will adhere to Graduate School policy regarding course grades and repetition
                        of courses. All courses applied toward PhD degree program requirements must have the
                        advisor's written approval.
                     
                     
                     Residency Requirements: The last 30 credit hours must be earned at The University of Memphis. Credit will
                        be transferred to apply toward a doctoral program upon approval of the student's advisory
                        committee in accordance with Graduate School policy. Comprehensive Examination: Upon completion of required coursework and prior to enrolling in dissertation hours
                        (PUBH 9000), the student must successfully complete a written and oral comprehensive
                        exam. The exam will assess mastery of areas covered in the student's program. The
                        content of the examination for each student will consist of core competencies in public
                        health, epidemiology, and dissertation topic. The student's advisory committee will
                        be responsible for organizing and evaluating the comprehensive examination.
                     
                     
                     Dissertation: To fulfill the requirements for the PhD in Epidemiology, the student must write and
                        defend a dissertation. The dissertation must adhere to the format outlined by the
                        Graduate School. The dissertation topic will be determined by the student in consultation
                        with the advisor and input from the advisory committee.
                     
                     
                     D. Program Curriculum:
                     
                     Epidemiology Research Methods Core: 12 credit hours PUBH 8141 Epidemiologic Survey Method (3) PUBH 8172 Epidemiology in Public Health II (3) PUBH 8174 Epidemiology in Public Health III (3) PUBH 8450 Randomized Clinical Trials (3)
                     
                     
                     Epidemiology Advanced Core: 9 credit hours NURS 8103 Advanced Pathophysiology (3) PUBH 8104 Large Datasets and Public Health Research (3) PSYC 8305 Quantitative Methods for Reviewing Research (meta-analysis) (3)
                     
                     
                     Epidemiology Subject Matter Core: 9 credit hours (Select three) PUBH 8442 Cancer Epidemiology (3) PUBH 8443 Infectious Disease Epidemiology (3) PUBH 8140 Epidemiology of Chronic Disease (3) PUBH 8122 Environmental Health II (3) PUBH 8445 Genetic Epidemiology (3)
                     
                     
                     Biostatistics Core: 9 credit hours Required: PUBH 8152 Biostatistical Methods II (3) (Plus, Select two of the following) PSYC 8302 Advanced Statistics I (Regression) (3) PSYC 8303 Advanced Statistics II (ANOVA) (3) PSYC 8304 Measurement Theory and Psychometrics (3) PSYC 8305 Quantitative Methods for Research Review (3) PSYC 8306 Linear structural modeling (3) PSYC 8308 Applied multivariate statistics (3) PUBH 8310 Mixed Models Regression (3) PUBH 8311 Applied Categorical Data Analysis (3) PUBH 8309 Applied Survival Analysis in Public Health (3)
                     
                     
                     Doctoral Seminar: 6 credit hours PUBH 8900 Science,Theory and PH Research (3) PUBH 8901 Professional Development for Public Health Doctoral Students (3)
                     
                     
                     Dissertation: 9 credit hours PUBH 9000 Doctoral Dissertation (9) Epidemiology Electives: at least 9 credit hours Students entering the program with a completed MPH or other health-related graduate
                        degree may have taken some of the required courses in the epidemiology core, such
                        as Biostatistics Methods II or Survey Methodology or equivalent courses. These students
                        can request a waiver from those courses and take additional courses from epidemiology
                        advanced core, epidemiology subject matter core or electives to meet the 63 credit
                        hour minimum requirement. Public Health Electives:  PUBH 7200 SPSS for Health Care Professionals (1*) PUBH 7201 SAS for Health Care Professionals (1*) PUBH 8130 Social Determinants of Health (3) PUBH 8132 Health Program Evaluation (3) PUBH 8135 Social Network Concepts in Public Health (3) PUBH 8165 Public Health Approaches to HIV/AIDS (3) PUBH 8161 Advanced Psychosocial Theories of Health and Health Behavior (3) PUBH 8334 Community Based Participatory Research (3) PUBH 8335 Structural and Environmental Issues in Urban Communities (3) PUBH 8336 Women's Health (3) PUBH 8338 Critical Issues in Global Health (3) PUBH 8339 Translational Research Methods in Population Health (3) PUBH 8341 Physical Activity and Public Health (3) PUBH 8342 Epidemiology of Minority and Ethnic Populations (3) PUBH 8343 Tobacco Use: Causes, Consequences, and Control (3) PUBH 8347 Qualitative Methods in Health Research (3) PUBH 8400 Special Problems (3) PUBH 8444 Fundamentals of Public Health Surveillance (3) PUBH 8447 Public Health Genomics (3) PUBH 8501 Health Systems Organization (3) PUBH 8502 Health Policy, Theory and Methods (3) PUBH 8800 Guided Research in Public Health** (1-9)
                     
                     
                     Other Electives: BIOL 8080 Public Health Microbiology (3) ESCI 8613 GIS and Human Health (3) PSYC 8506 Grant Writing (3)
                     
                     
                     *Do not count towards graduation ** Up to 9 credit hours of PUBH 8800 may be applied toward the electives requirement
                     
                     
                     VI. Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Health Systems and Policy
                     
                     DAN GENTRY, PhD Professor and Graduate Program Coordinator 137 Robison Hall 901.678.3437
                     
                     
                     Email: sph-admin@memphis.edu
                     
                     The PhD degree in Health Systems and Policy (HSP) is the highest academic degree for
                        individuals planning to pursue scholarly careers in this discipline. The HSP PhD is
                        designed for those who want to teach and conduct research utilizing evidence-based
                        best practices and rigorous scientific theories and methods to understand and improve
                        the structure, process, and outcomes of health systems, as well as the transformative
                        nature of healthcare data and evidence; and the need to address health systems issues
                        within the context of improving population health. Graduates of the program will be
                        prepared to conduct innovative, interdisciplinary, and translational research and
                        a variety of academic, government, and non-profit health settings.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admission
                     
                     A master’s degree in a public health, health services administration, health policy
                        or other related health field is required for admission. Applicants for the doctoral
                        program must show potential for further study by having maintained a GPA of at least
                        a 3.0 average in their master's‐level coursework. An acceptable, competitive score
                        on the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) from the past five years is required. Applicants
                        already holding a doctoral degree or its professional equivalent from a U.S. university
                        may be exempted from the GRE requirement. Other professional school standardized test
                        scores (MCAT, DAT, GMAT, or LSAT,) may be substituted for the GRE by applicants who
                        are working toward, or who have already earned, post‐baccalaureate degrees in medicine,
                        dentistry, management, or law earned in the U.S. Test scores must be sent directly
                        to Graduate Admissions by the testing agency. The University of Memphis institution
                        code number for reporting ETS scores is R-1459.
                     
                     
                     All applicants who will be attending the University on a visa, are non-native English
                        speakers, and are not University of Memphis graduates must supply a minimum score
                        of 96 (80%) on the computer-based Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iBT)
                        or an equivalent score on the paper-based test (TOEFL PBT).
                     
                     
                     Letters of recommendation from three professionals (at least two letters from former
                        professors) familiar with the applicant’s academic background or experience in public
                        health related work, specifying in detail the applicant’s capabilities for graduate
                        study and for future performance as a public health scholar, are required. Applicants
                        must also submit a personal statement of approximately 750 to 1000 words indicating
                        his/her present interests and career goals, including how the PhD in Health Systems
                        and Policy will prepare the candidate to achieve these goals.
                     
                     
                     Materials submitted will be reviewed by the faculty admissions committee. Admission
                        decisions are based upon the overall quality of the applicant’s scholarship and academic
                        ability (i.e., GPAs, GRE scores, undergraduate and graduate coursework completed,
                        research conducted, and recommendations), as well as the applicant’s “fit” for the
                        program in terms of research interests and career goals.
                     
                     
                     Students are usually admitted to the HSP PhD program for the fall semester. The priority
                        application deadline is December 1, guaranteed consideration deadline is February
                        1, and final application deadline is April 1. 
                     
                     
                     B. Program Prerequisites  All HSP doctoral students are required to fulfill the following pre-requisites (9
                        credit hours) or document equivalent coursework. These three courses will not count
                        toward the required 60 hours of doctoral study: PUBH 8150: Biostatistics Methods I;
                        PUBH 8170: Epidemiology in Public Health; and PUBH 8105: Health Policy and the Organization
                        of Health Services.
                     
                     
                     C. Program Requirements
                     
                     Credit Hours:  A minimum of 60 semester hours of graduate credit beyond the master’s degree is required
                        for the PhD in Health Systems and Policy. All work for doctoral credit must be approved
                        by, and must be completed at a level of performance satisfactory to, the graduate
                        faculty of the Division of Health Systems Management and Policy. Students also may
                        take coursework for degree credit outside the School of Public Health with advisor
                        approval.
                     
                     
                     Transfer Credit:  Graduate School regulations must be followed regarding accepting academic credits
                        from another institution. Courses proposed for transfer credit must meet the following
                        two requirements. (a) The Tennessee Board of Regents requires a minimum of 750 contact
                        minutes for each semester credit (2250 for a 3-hour course). (b) The Tennessee Conference
                        of Graduate Schools requires a minimum of 3 hours of class work per week for 3 hours
                        of credit. Grades earned at another institution will not be computed in the University
                        cumulative grade point average, nor will they be accepted for transfer, unless they
                        are "B" (3.0) or better. No credit will be transferred unless it meets with the approval
                        of the major advisor or program graduate coordinator.
                     
                     
                     Enrollment:  Full-time students are expected to carry a minimum of 9 credits per semester, and
                        to devote full time during their enrollment to the pursuit of degree-related activities.
                        Full-time students with graduate assistantships are required to enroll for 9 credits
                        each semester. Part-time students are expected to carry a minimum of 6 credits per
                        semester, unless permission is granted from the advisor for a reduced course load.
                     
                     
                     Research:  All doctoral students are expected to be active in research collaboratively with
                        members of the Division faculty each semester they are enrolled. Students may receive
                        credit for research involvement by enrolling in PUBH 8800 (Guided Research in Public
                        Health).
                     
                     
                     Comprehensive Examination:  Upon completion of required coursework and prior to enrolling in dissertation hours
                        (PUBH 9000), the student must successfully complete a written and oral comprehensive
                        examination. The examination will assess mastery of areas covered in the student’s
                        program. The content of the examination for each student will consist of core competencies
                        in public health and health systems and policy applied to public health, health services
                        and policy, and dissertation topic. The student’s advisory committee will be responsible
                        for organizing and evaluating the comprehensive examination.
                     
                     
                     Dissertation:  To fulfill the requirements for the PhD in Health Systems and Policy, the student
                        must write and defend a dissertation. The dissertation must adhere to the format outlined
                        by the Graduate School. The dissertation topic will be determined by the student in
                        consultation with the advisor with input from the advisory committee.
                     
                     
                     Residency Requirements:  The last thirty semester hours of credit for the doctoral degree must be earned at
                        the University of Memphis. Only the number of dissertation hours accepted by the program
                        toward the degree will be accepted as part of the last 30 hours.
                     
                     
                     D. Program Curriculum
                     
                     Curriculum Requirements:  The PhD in Health Systems and Policy requires completion of at least 60 semester credit
                        hours beyond the master’s degree. Required courses are organized into four cores plus
                        electives and dissertation, as described below.
                     
                     
                     Health Systems and Policy Core: 21 credit hours The following are required courses:
                     
                     
                        
                        PUBH 8710 Health Care Economics (3)
                        
                        HADM 8102 Health Care Law (3)
                        
                        HADM 8204 Quality and Outcomes Management in Health Care (3)
                        
                        PUBH 8502 Health Policy, Theory and Methods (3)
                        
                        PUBH 8503 Health Systems Decision-Making (3)
                        
                        PUBH 8504 IT & Organizational Change (3)
                        
                        PUBH 8109 Health Care information Systems (3)
                        
                     
                     
                     Doctoral Seminar Core: 6 credit hours The following are required courses:
                     
                     
                        
                        PUBH 8900: Science, Theory, and Public Health Research (3)
                        
                        PUBH 8901: Professional Development for Public Health Doctoral Students (3)
                        
                     
                     
                     Research Methods Core:9 credit hours Required course:
                     
                     
                        
                        HADM 8106 Health Services Research (3)
                        
                     
                     
                     Select two additional courses (6 credit hours):
                     
                     
                        
                        PUBH 8141 Epidemiologic Survey Methods (3)
                        
                        PUBH 8172 Epidemiology in Public Health II (3)
                        
                        PUBH 8174 Epidemiology in Public Health III (3)
                        
                        PUBH 8339 Translational Research Methods in Population Health (3)
                        
                        PUBH 8444 Fundamentals of Public Health Surveillance (3)
                        
                        PUBH 8450 Randomized Clinical Trials (3)
                        
                        PUBH 8334 Community Based Participatory Research Methods (3)
                        
                        PUBH 8347 Qualitative Methods in Health Research (3)
                        
                     
                     
                     Biostatistics Core:   9 credit hours Required:  
                     
                     
                        
                        PUBH 8152 Biostatistical Methods II (3)
                        
                     
                     
                     Select two additional courses (6 credit hours):
                     
                     
                        
                        PSYC 8302 Advanced Statistics
                        
                        PSYC 8304 Measurement Theory and Psychometrics (3)
                        
                        PUBH 8305 Quantitative Methods of Review in Research (3)
                        
                        PSYC 8308 Applied Multivariate Statistics (3)
                        
                        PUBH 8306 Linear Structural Modeling (3)
                        
                        PUBH 8310 Mixed Model Regression Analysis (3)
                        
                        PUBH 8311 Applied Categorical Data Analysis (3)
                        
                        PSYC 8301 Research Design and Methods
                        
                        PUBH 8104 Large Data Sets in Public Health Research (3)
                        
                     
                     
                     Electives:  6 Credit hours Electives must be approved by the major advisor. Students entering the program with
                        a completed MPH, MHA, or other health-related graduate degree may request a waiver
                        for courses that have been completed.
                     
                     
                     Dissertation:  9 credit hours Required :
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        PUBH 9000 Doctoral Dissertation (9)
                        
                     
                     
                     Dissertation and Final Examination: The dissertation is viewed as the capstone of
                        the student’s academic training, reflecting the student’s capacity for independent
                        research. Students should familiarize themselves with the  Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide  before beginning to write. Upon completion of an independent dissertation research
                        project acceptable to the faculty, each student will take a final oral examination
                        oriented toward, but not exclusively on, the student’s dissertation research and major
                        area of specialization.
                     
                     
                     Students are required to take 9 credit hours toward their dissertation at the University
                           of Memphis .
                     
                     
                     VII. Graduate Certificate in Population Health A. Admissions Requirements: Students must have completed a bachelor's degree with a cumulative grade point average
                        of at least 2.5 and apply for admission to the Graduate School with the classification
                        of "Graduate Certificate." To apply students must submit:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Transcripts of undergraduate degree program and any prior graduate study to Graduate
                           Admissions.
                        
                        
                        An application and one-page letter describing their intent to pursue the certificate
                           and its relevance to their career goals to the Academic Services Coordinator of the
                           School of Public Health.
                        
                        
                        Applicants for whom English is not their primary language are required to meet the
                           University's minimum required TOEFL score.
                        
                        
                        Acceptance into the certificate program is not an implied acceptance into any master's
                           degree program.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements: Completion of five courses (15 semester credit hours), as follows:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        PUBH 7150 Biostatistical Methods I (3) (Fall)
                        
                        PUBH 7170 Epidemiology in Public Health (3) (Fall)
                        
                        HADM 7105 Health Policy and Organization of Health Services (3) (Spring)
                        
                        PUBH 7160 Social and Behavioral Sciences Principles (3) (Spring)
                        
                        PUBH 7120 Environmental Health I (3) (Spring)
                        
                     
                     
                     C. Graduation Requirements:
                     
                     
                        
                        The student must complete all five required courses with a minimum grade of B in each
                           course.
                        
                        
                        All courses towards certification must be completed within five years.
                        
                     
                     
                     In the semester of graduation, the student must submit the Apply to Graduate Form
                        to the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to the School's Director
                        of Graduate Studies by the deadline specified by the Graduate School.
                     
                     
                     VIII. Graduate Certificate in Health Analytics The Certificate in Health Analytics is designed to provide students with core training
                        in health analytics, including skills in biostatistics, predictive modeling, text
                        mining, and advanced programming/data skills demanded by community and health care
                        institutions today. Offered by the School of Public Health, this Certificate requires
                        5 courses (15 hours) of graduate coursework. Students completing this certificate
                        program will be competitive for a wide number of positions in the health care field.
                     
                     
                     A. Admissions Requirements Admission to the program will be based on competitive selection from the pool of applicants
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Complete admission to The University of Memphis and the School of Public Health
                        
                        A minimum of a BS/BA in a related field with a cumulative GPA of 3.0 on a 4.0 point
                           scale.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements Participants complete 15 credits hours of graduate work obtained from completing these
                        five required courses:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        PUBH 7150, Biostatistical Methods I (3)
                        
                        PUBH 7152, Biostatistical Methods II (3)
                        
                        PUBH 7308/8308, Applied Multivariate Statistics (3)
                        
                        PUBH 7109, SAS Programming for Public Health Professionals I (3)
                        
                        PUBH 7104/8104, Large Data Sets (3)
                        
                     
                     
                     For students who have already taken one or more of the above courses or equivalence
                        prior to entering the Certificate program, following is a list of 6 elective classes
                        from which students can choose to meet the 15 credit hours requirement: (For example,
                        if a student has already taken SAS I, the student might wish to take SAS II to further
                        develop their analytic skills.) Electives that students may take if required courses have already been taken:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        HADM 7109/8109, Health Information Systems (3)
                        
                        PUBH 7153/8153, Biostatistics in Bioinformatics (3)
                        
                        PUBH 7210, SAS Programming for Public Health Professionals II (3)
                        
                        PUBH 7309/8309, Applied Survival Analysis in Public Health (3)
                        
                        PUBH 7310/8310, Mixed Model Regression Analysis (3)
                        
                        PUBH 7311/8311,  Applied Categorical Data Analysis (3)
                        
                     
                     
                     C. Progression/Retention Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        All students in the certification program must maintain a 3.0 graduate GPA.
                        
                        A cumulative graduate GPA of 3.0 or better is required for certification.
                        
                        All courses towards certification must be completed within 7 years.
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Click here for course descriptions
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/sph.php
