http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/shs.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                              	Degree Planning
                              	
                        School of Health Sciences
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     School of Health Studies
                     
                     RICHARD J. BLOOMER, PhD Director LAWRENCE W. WEISS, EdD Director of Graduate Programs 901.678.5037 E-mail: lweiss@memphis.edu
                     
                     RUTH WILLIAMS-HOOKER, EdD Coordinator, Clinical Nutrition Program 901.678.3108
                     
                     
                     Room 106, Roane Field House 901.678.2989 www.memphis.edu/shs/programs
                     
                     
                     
                     I. The School of Health Studies (SHS) offers two graduate degrees: 1) Master of Science degree in Health Studies (HS) with
                        concentrations in Exercise and Sport Science (EXSS), Health Promotion (HPRO, online
                        program only), and Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE); and 2) Master of Science
                        degree in Nutrition (NUTR) with concentrations in Clinical Nutrition (CLNN), Environmental
                        Nutrition (ENVN, online program only), and Nutrition Science (NSCI). The School of
                        Health Studies also offers a Graduate Certificate degree in Faith and Health. 
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                             
                                             All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School
                                                (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued.
                                             
                                             
                                          
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     II. MS Degree Program with Major in Health Studies
                     
                     Program objectives are: (1) to recognize the diverse nature of subject matter embodied
                        in the respective program disciplines; (2) to understand the research findings and
                        theoretical constructs undergirding the corresponding disciplines within the health
                        studies umbrella, including the development of specialized skills needed for systematic
                        inquiry; (3) to understand the critical role of diversity in delivering inclusive
                        health studies services; (4) to develop effective leadership skills; and (5) to understand
                        and embrace ethical standards of the respective disciplines.
                     
                     
                     A. Admission Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        Prospective students must apply to both the Graduate School and the School of Health
                           Studies.  In both cases, the applicant must submit an official transcript for undergraduate
                           and graduate studies.  Additionally, as part of the application to the Graduate School,
                           an official report of Graduate Record Examination (GRE) scores must be submitted except:
                           
                              
                              Health Promotion (HPRO): An applicant seeking admission to the HPRO concentration
                                 is not required to submit GRE scores. However, official GRE or other standardized
                                 test scores may be requested or submitted to support an application.
                              
                              
                              Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE): An applicant seeking admission to the
                                 PETE concentration may opt to submit official scores of the PRAXIS II exams in lieu
                                 of the GRE.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        An applicant must also submit the following to the School: 1) SHS Graduate Admission
                           Application Form, 2) two letters of recommendation, and 3) a 300-500 word statement
                           of goals including identification of the intended area of concentration. (Contact
                           the school's academic services coordinator for application forms. School of Health
                           Studies application forms are also available on-line at www.memphis.edu/shs/students/grad_admission.php .
                        
                        
                        An applicant must have graduated with a minimum baccalaureate GPA of 2.5.
                        
                        Completion of an appropriate undergraduate major and a strong background in discipline-specific
                           courses:
                           
                              
                              Exercise and Sport Science: anatomy and physiology, health sciences, exercise physiology,
                                    anatomic kinesiology, biomechanics, and motor learning
                              
                              Health Promotion: science-oriented courses such as, but not limited to, nutrition,
                                 biology, biochemistry, health sciences, chemistry, and psychology
                              
                              
                              Physical Education Teacher Education: anatomic kinesiology, anatomy and physiology,
                                    biology, exercise physiology, health sciences, motor learning, nutrition, and sport
                                    psychology
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Completion of undergraduate work deemed by the concentration committee as prerequisite
                           to graduate courses.
                        
                        
                        Student admissions to the respective programs within the Health and Sport Science
                           (HSS) major are differentially restricted to enable Graduate Faculty within each concentration
                           to closely mentor their students. To ensure maximum consideration for admission into
                           a specific SHS concentration, the following dates are provided: May 1 for summer and
                           fall and November 1 for the spring semester. The admission committee may request a
                           personal interview. Multiple criteria will be used when considering applicant admission,
                           including, but not limited to, undergraduate and graduate grade point average, GRE/PRAXIS
                           II scores, personal goals statement, relevant employment history, and letters of recommendation.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        A minimum of 30 hours is required for the major although respective concentrations
                           may require additional credit hours.
                        
                        
                        Program Research Core (6 hours):
                           
                              
                              HMSE 7010
                              
                              EDPR 7541
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Concentration requirements:
                           
                              
                              Exercise and Sport Science (18 hours): EDPR 7542 or PUBH 7152; EXSS 7020,  7123, 7163,
                                    7201, 7202
                              
                              Health Promotion (24 hours): HPRO 7182, 7183, 7710, 7712, 7722, 7780, 7790; PUBH 7132
                                 or EDPR 7551
                              
                              
                              Physical Education Teacher Education (18 hours): PETE 7201, 7202, 7203, 7204, 7205,
                                    7501
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Guided electives selected with approval of the advisor:
                           
                              
                              Exercise and Sport Science (6 hours)
                              
                              Health Promotion (no electives)
                              
                              Physical Education Teacher Education (6 hours)
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Culminating Experience (3-9 hours)(Consult Graduate School Calendar for submission deadlines - ):
                           
                              
                              Exercise and Sport Science: EXSS 7850* (6 hours), or EXSS 7950 (6 hours), or HMSE
                                 7996** (6 hours). *Must be under the tutelage of a Graduate Faculty member with Full status at either
                                 one of the EXSS Human Performance Laboratories or at another site on campus, and involves
                                 40 contact hours per credit hour. In order for residency arrangements to be formalized,
                                 they must first receive written or electronic approval by the student's Major Professor,
                                 the EXSS Program Coordinator, and the Director of the laboratory in which training
                                 is to occur. **Students choosing the thesis option should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write.
                              
                              
                              Health Promotion: HPRO 7950 (3 hours)
                              
                              Physical Education Teacher Education: HMSE 7996 (6 hours), PETE 7950 (6 hours), or
                                 two advisor-approved graduate courses.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        6. Successful completion of an oral or written comprehensive examination (successful
                           defense of the Research Laboratory Residency in EXSS, Applied Project, or Thesis may
                           serve this purpose). (Consult Graduate School Calendar for submission deadlines)
                        
                        
                        Consult Graduate School Calendar for Apply to Graduate submission deadlines
                        
                        8. An Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's (ABM) Program is offered by the School of Health
                           Studies:
                           
                              
                              BS, Health Studies with a concentration in Exercise & Sport Science (EXSS)/ MS, Health
                                 Studies (HS) with a concentration in Exercise & Sport Science (EXSS)
                                 
                                 The Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's (ABM) degree program HS EXSS)/ HS (EXSS) provides
                                    qualified UM senior undergraduate students the opportunity to satisfy course requirements,
                                    including elective hours, for the bachelor's degree in HS with a concentration in
                                    EXSS that also may be subsequently applied on a prearranged basis to the master's
                                    degree in HS with a concentration in EXSS that may satisfy some of its degree requirements.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     For students who work closely with their advisors in planning their course of study
                        in the School of Health Studies, this option offers the opportunity of simultaneously
                        satisfying partial degree requirements for a bachelor's and a master's degree in an
                        accelerated program of study. Upon completion of the undergraduate degree with a satisfactory
                        undergraduate grade point average and a grade of "B" or better in all graduate courses
                        completed, the student may move to full graduate student status, and the preapproved
                        graduate courses taken as an undergraduate may be applied toward the pre-specified
                        graduate program of study.
                     
                     
                     Students may use up to nine credit hours of designated courses in meeting the requirements
                        of both the HS/EXSS bachelor's and HS/EXSS master's degrees.. Courses considered for
                        this purpose may include 4000/6000-level cognates and/or 7000-level courses. Undergraduate
                        students will register for the 6000- or 7000-level courses, but fees will be levied
                        at the undergraduate rate. Students applying for this program must:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Have completed at least 18 hours of course work at UM before taking courses as part
                           of the ABM program;
                        
                        
                        Have a UM GPA of 3.25 or better
                        
                        Be within 30 semester hours of graduation
                        
                        Have written approval of the SHS Director, the program coordinator(s) of both the
                              respective undergraduate and graduate programs, and the SHS Academic Services Coordinator
                              in order for specific graduate courses being acceptable for dual credit in the undergraduate
                              and master's degree programs;
                        
                        Meet all requirements for admission (including the GRE) into the specified graduate
                              program (except for receipt of the undergraduate degree); and
                        
                        Submit an application for admission to the ABM Degree Program, along with all necessary
                              admissions documentation to the Graduate School by the deadline dates listed below.
                        
                     
                     
                     A maximum total of nine semester hours of preapproved graduate coursework may be considered
                        for dual credit in the undergraduate and graduate degree programs and a maximum total
                        academic load of 15 hours during the semester in which any of the graduate courses
                        are taken.
                     
                     
                     Students interested in this option must concurrently meet in person with the SHS Director,
                        the program coordinator(s) for respective undergraduate and graduate programs in question,
                        as well as the SHS Academic Services Coordinator, and receive their written approval
                        of the application. Final acceptance into the ABM program is contingent upon approval
                        by the Vice Provost for Graduate Programs. Approvals apply only for the specific programs
                        and courses designated in the application. Stipulated graduate courses for the ABM
                        program are the only ones for which students in the undergraduate program are eligible
                        to enroll, and completion of all allowable graduate courses is optional.   
                     
                     
                     For application materials, contact the SHS Academic Services Coordinator at 901-678-5037
                        or go to www.memphis.edu/shs/students/admission_advising.php  . Students may not apply online for this program. Submit application materials to
                        the School of Health Studies no later than the following dates, after which school-approved
                        applications will be submitted by the school to the Graduate School for consideration:
                     
                     
                     April 15 for fall term admission
                     
                     October 15 for spring term admission
                     
                     April 15 for summer term admission
                     
                     Subsequent to admission into the ABM program and satisfactory completion of stipulated
                        coursework approved for the designated programs of study, a maximum of 9 credit hours
                        from the following graduate courses may be applied to the respective programs of study
                        for both the undergraduate and graduate levels as follows:
                     
                     
                     Health Studies with a concentration in Exercise & Sport Science: 
                     
                     •  EXSS 6000 or EXSS 6603
                     
                     •  HMSE 7010
                     
                     •  EXSS 7020
                     
                     C. Program Retention Policy
                     
                     All MS degree students are regularly monitored for completion of any entry-level deficiencies
                        by graduate faculty.
                     
                     
                     Program retention committees, comprised of selected graduate faculty within the corresponding
                        programs of study, monitor the academic progress of all MS degree candidates in the
                        respective programs. Each committee determines whether or not the student is making
                        sufficient progress and, in case of deficiencies, may recommend additional work or
                        the dismissal of the student from the program. For any student recommended for dismissal,
                        an appeals process is available.
                     
                     
                     III. MS Degree Program with Major in Nutrition
                     
                     Program objectives are to: (1) recognize the diverse nature of subject matter embodied
                        in the nutrition disciplines; (2) understand the research findings and theoretical
                        constructs undergirding the nutrition disciplines (3) understand and embrace ethical
                        standards of the respective disciplines.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Prerequisites
                     
                     
                        
                        Prospective students must apply to both the Graduate School and the School of Health
                           Studies, except Clinical Nutrition applicants must follow the DICAS application process
                           See http://www.memphis.edu/shs/programs/clinical_nutrition.php). The applicant must
                           submit an official transcript for undergraduate and graduate studies. Additionally,
                           as part of the application to the Graduate School, an official report of Graduate
                           Record Examination (GRE) scores must be submitted except:
                           
                              
                              Environmental Nutrition (ENVN): An applicant seeking admission to the ENVN concentration
                                 is not required to submit GRE scores. However, official GRE or other standardized
                                 test scores may be requested or submitted to support an application.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        An applicant, except in Clinical Nutrition, must also submit the following to the
                           School: 1) SHS Graduate Admission Application Form, 2) two letters of recommendation,
                           and 3) a 300-500 word statement of goals including identification of the intended
                           area of concentration. (Contact the school's academic services coordinator for application
                           forms. School application forms are also available on-line at. ( www.memphis.edu/shs/students/grad_admission.php )
                        
                        
                        An applicant must have graduated with a minimum baccalaureate GPA of 2.5, except Clinical
                           Nutrition applicants must have a minimum GPA of 3.0.
                        
                        
                        Completion of an appropriate undergraduate major and a strong background in discipline-specific
                           courses:
                           
                              
                              Clinical Nutrition: Completion of an undergraduate degree and an Academy of Nutrition
                                 and Dietetics (AND)-approved Didactic Program in Dietetics Verification Statement.
                              
                              
                              Environmental Nutrition: life science-oriented courses such as nutrition, biology,
                                 health sciences, public health, health promotion, food service, and anthropology
                              
                              
                              Nutrition Science: science-oriented courses such as, but not limited to, nutrition,
                                 biology, biochemistry, health sciences, and chemistry
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Completion of undergraduate work deemed by the concentration committee as prerequisite
                           to graduate courses.
                        
                        
                        Student admissions to the respective programs within the Nutrition (NUTR) major are
                           differentially restricted to enable Graduate Faculty within each concentration to
                           closely mentor their students. To ensure maximum consideration for admission into
                           a specific NUTR concentration, the following dates are provided: May 1 for summer
                           and fall and November 1 for the spring semester. Clinical Nutrition applicants must
                           participate in the DICAS application process during mid-February. The admission committee
                           may request a personal interview. Multiple criteria will be used when considering
                           applicant admission, including, but not limited to, undergraduate and graduate grade
                           point average, GRE scores, personal goals statement, relevant employment history,
                           and letters of recommendation.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        A minimum of 30 hours is required for the major although respective concentrations
                           may require additional credit hours.
                        
                        
                        Program Research Core (6 hours):
                           
                              
                              HMSE 7010
                              
                              EDPR 7541
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Concentration requirements:
                           
                              
                              Clinical Nutrition (23 hours): HPRO 7780, NUTR 7205, 7305, 7405, 7412, 7415 (2 hr),
                                 7422, 7522
                              
                              
                              Environmental Nutrition (18 hours): NUTR 7182, 7183, 7710, 7712, 7722, 7850
                              
                              Nutrition Science (12 hours): NUTR 7152, 7412, 7422, PUBH 7152
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Guided electives selected with approval of the advisor:
                           
                              
                              Clinical Nutrition (0 hours)
                              
                              Environmental Nutrition (0-3 hours)
                              
                              Nutrition Science (9 hours)
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Culminating Experience (6-10 hours)(Consult Graduate School Calendar for submission
                           deadlines - www.memphis.edu/gradschool/calendar.php ):
                           
                              
                              Clinical Nutrition: NUTR 7481 (9 hours) and NUTR 7482 (1 hour)
                              
                              Environmental Nutrition: NUTR 7800 (3-6 hours), and NUTR 7950 (3 hours);
                              
                              Nutrition Science: HMSE 7996 (6 hours) or NUTR 7950 (6 hours). Students choosing the
                                 thesis option should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Successful completion of an oral or written comprehensive examination (successful
                           defense of the Clinical Internship in NUTR, Internship in Environmental Nutrition,
                           Applied Project, or Thesis may serve this purpose). (Consult Graduate School Calendar
                           for submission deadlines - www.memphis.edu/gradschool/calendar.php )
                        
                        
                        Consult Graduate School Calendar for Intent to Graduate submission deadlines -  www.memphis.edu/gradschool/calendar.php
                        
                     
                     
                     IV. Graduate Certificate in Faith and Health Faith and health have a long history of integration, especially in relation to providing
                        much needed care to underserved populations. There are instances of health needs influencing
                        faith based practices, while theological frameworks have a long history of influencing
                        health practices and providing care to those in need. Through collaboration with the
                        Church Health Center, this graduate certificate focuses on the intersection of faith
                        and health—providing students with knowledge and understanding of how these two key
                        areas influence one another in providing patient care. This certificate is ideal for
                        students interested in working within the medical field, within public health or faith-based
                        healthcare organizations, as well as similar professions. Consisting of 12 credit
                        hours, students will take part in two hybrid (in-class/on-line) courses and two practicum
                        courses (utilizing the Experiential Learning Credit; see www.memphis.edu/innovation/elc/experiential_learning.php ).
                     
                     
                     A. Admission Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School
                           (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ), as well as the program requirements of the certificate.
                        
                        
                        Prospective students must apply to the Graduate School and to the School of Health
                           Studies (see School website for details). The applicant must submit an official transcript
                           for undergraduate studies. The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is not required.
                        
                        
                        An applicant must have graduated with a minimum baccalaureate GPA of 2.5.
                        
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        A total of 12 credit hours (four, 3 credit hour courses) are required for the graduate
                           certificate in Faith and Health. The following courses are required: FTHT 7000: Practicum in Faith and Health I* FTHT 7001: Practicum in Faith and Health II* FTHT 7002: Community and Whole Person Healthcare FTHT 7003: The Intersection of Faith and Health
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     *The two practicum courses utilize the Experiential Learning Credit; see www.memphis.edu/innovation/elc/experiential_learning.php .
                     
                     
                     C. Graduation Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        Students are required to complete all 12 credit hours as indicated above. A minimum
                           GPA of 3.0 is required for successful completion of the graduate certificate program.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                     Click here for course descriptions
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/shs.php
