http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/edu/icl.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                              	Degree Planning
                              	
                        Instruction and Curriculum Leadership
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Instruction and Curriculum Leadership
                     
                     ANGILINE POWELL, PhD Interim Chair JAMES MEINDL, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Studies 901.678.3310
                     
                     SHELBY TATE MS, Ed.S and Ed.D. Graduate Advisor 901.678.4861
                     
                     LARUTH LOFTIES MAT Graduate Advisor
                     
                     icl-graduate-studies@memphis.edu http://www.memphis.edu/icl/
                     
                     Mailing Address: Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership Ball Hall Room 404 Memphis, TN 38152
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     I. Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Overview, Programs, and
                           Admission Deadlines
                     
                     A. Overview
                     
                     The Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) offers graduate programs
                        leading to the Master of Science, Master of Arts in Teaching, and Doctor of Education
                        degrees. Graduate students can also take Instructional Design and Technology (IDT)
                        courses that focus on educational technology and design and development in various
                        traditional and non-traditional educational settings that will lead to a Certificate
                        in Instructional Design and Technology. The department also offers courses that lead
                        to Certificates in Literacy Leadership and Coaching, Urban Education, Teacher Leader,
                        and Autism Studies.  The University of Memphis participates in the TN eCampus Master
                        of Education degree (MEd) in Advanced Studies in Teaching and Learning. The College
                        of Education, Health and Human Sciences is accredited by the National Council for
                        the Accreditation of Teacher Education (NCATE).
                     
                     
                     Program objectives are: (1) understanding of how learning occurs, how students construct
                        knowledge and acquire skills, and how to provide learning opportunities that support
                        intellectual, social, and personal development; (2) ability to adapt instructional
                        techniques to diverse cultural and language backgrounds and to those with exceptional
                        learning needs; (3) understands the principles and techniques associated with various
                        instructional strategies that reflect best practice and that foster high expectations
                        for all students; and (4) ability to use multiple teaching and learning strategies
                        that engage students in active learning opportunities. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School
                        (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued.
                     
                     
                     B. Definition of Programs
                     
                     
                        
                        Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) Degree. The MAT program is designed for students
                           seeking initial teacher licensure and a Master’s degree. Programs are offered in Early
                           Childhood (PreK-3), Elementary Education (K-5), Secondary Education (grades 6-12), Music
                           (K-12); English Second Language (K-12); Art (K-12); and Physical Education Teacher
                           Education (K-12), and Special Education (K-12). Students choosing Special Education
                           will choose one of three licensure areas: interventionist, comprehensive, or early
                           childhood. MAT students should apply to the Teacher Education Program (TEP) as soon
                           as they enroll for courses. TEP admission, MAT admission, and Graduate School admission
                           are separate procedures. The Teacher Education Program. TEP is NOT a degree program. It is regulated by the
                           Tennessee Department of Education and administered by the Department of Instruction
                           and Curriculum Leadership. The TEP program requires an application and admission procedures
                           that are separate and distinct from admission to the Master of Arts in Teaching program.
                           Students should apply to TEP as soon as they enroll in College of Education courses.
                        
                        
                        Master of Science (MS) Degree. The MS degree is NOT designed for students seeking
                           initial teacher licensure. It is designed for students who are seeking advanced study
                           in education with a concentration in Instruction and Curriculum, Instructional Design
                           and Technology, Reading, Early Childhood Education, or Special Education.
                        
                        
                        Master of Education (MEd) Degree. The University of Memphis participates in the TN
                           eCampus Master of Education degree (MEd) in Advanced Studies in Teaching and Learning.
                           This program provides advanced professional preparation in the area of reading and
                           language arts for practicing teachers.
                        
                        
                        Doctor of Education (EdD). The Doctor of Education degree is designed to improve the
                           competency of teachers, to serve the career needs and goals of individuals in education-related
                           fields, to encourage research in a student’s area of concentration, and to initiate
                           and implement programs involving the schools and the community. Concentrations are
                           offered in Instruction and Curriculum, Instructional Design and Technology, Reading,
                           Early Childhood Education, or Special Education.
                        
                        
                        Education Specialist (EdS) Degree. The Education Specialist is an interdisciplinary
                           degree designed to provide an individualized, flexible program of studies for the
                           educator-practitioner in either a school or non-school setting, whose academic interests
                           are aimed at specific and individual career goals and needs. It offers opportunities
                           for advanced professional specialization and includes a relevant culminating experience
                           or a thesis. Students in this program may choose a content area specialty from any of the concentration
                              areas offered under the MAT or MS degrees.
                        
                     
                     
                     C. Application Deadlines
                     
                     Applicants to the ICL graduate programs are evaluated periodically throughout the
                        year. All application information must be received by February 1 for summer semesters,
                        April 1 for fall semesters, and October 1 for spring semesters. The IDT EdD program
                        accepts applications for summer semester only, with a February 15th application deadline.
                     
                     
                     II. Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) Degree Program
                     
                     A. MAT Program Admission
                     
                     Applicants must complete admissions requirements to be admitted. All admissions requirements must be met prior to being admitted into the MAT program. MAT admission requirements are designed to be both competitive and selective, to
                        be knowledge and performance-based, to be clear and consistent, to maintain diversity,
                        and to meet or exceed undergraduate requirements and minimum state requirements. To be admitted to the MAT program a candidate must:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Take and pass all sections of the Core Academics Skills for Educations (CORE). (Reading,
                           Writing, and Math).  If the GRE has been taken, the student may have the CORE waived
                           if the scores are appropriate (verbal 143, quantitative 138, writing 3.5) and are
                           less than 5 years old.
                        
                        
                        Take and pass the Praxis II Content Knowledge Exam required for the student's licensure
                           area. Please refer to http://www.tn.gov/education/section/licensing  to verify what exam should be taken.
                        
                        Submit an application to Graduate Admissions (FedEx Institute of Technology Building,
                        Suite 201) including the following:
                        
                           
                           An official transcript reflecting an earned bachelor's degree with a 3.0 or higher
                              grade point average from an accredited institution. Applicants with a successful professional
                              career may appeal this grade point average requirement.
                           
                           
                           Passing scores on the CORE Academic Skills for Educators reading (156), writing (162),
                              and math (150) subtests.
                           
                           
                           Passing scores on the Praxis II Content Knowledge Exam for the licensure area they
                              plan to teach. (NOTE: Special Education applicants may submit passing scores on the
                              Elementary Content Knowledge Exam, Middle School Content Knowledge Exam, or the Education
                              of Exceptional Student: Core Content Knowledge Exam.)
                           
                           
                        
                        
                         Submit the ICL department MAT application ( http://www.memphis.edu/tep/pdfs/mat-application.doc ) to the Graduate Analyst in Ball Hall 215 (3798 Walker Ave, Memphis, TN 38152) along
                           with copies of the CORE and Praxis II Content Knowledge scores.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     B. TEP Program Admission
                     
                     
                        
                        Students who plan to pursue a graduate program of studies leading to teacher licensure
                           must submit a formal application to the College of Education Teacher Education Program
                           (TEP). Students are encouraged to apply for admission into TEP as soon as they enroll
                           in any College of Education courses.
                        
                        
                        TEP admissions deadlines are September 15 for fall and January 31 for spring.
                        
                        Requirements for provisional admission into TEP include:
                           
                              
                              A grade point average of 3.25 at the graduate level and undergraduate grade point
                                 average of 3.0 or higher;
                              
                              
                              Pass all sections of the CORE Academic Skills for Educators;
                              
                              Pass the Praxis II Content Knowledge Exam required by the State of Tennessee for the
                                 licensure area being pursued.
                              
                              
                              TBI Background Check
                              
                              Completion of teacher aptitude survey
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Requirements for full admission to TEP must be completed prior to the Clinical Teaching
                           Semester and/or the semester candidates enroll in ICL 7993. They include:
                           
                              
                              3.25 graduate grade point average
                              
                              Exemplar work sample utilizing the professional portfolio
                              
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Passing scores on all required Praxis II Licensure Exams Licensure and Graduation: 
                        Candidates participating in the Clinical Teaching Semester and/or ICL 7993 must submit
                        a successful Teacher Performance Assessment (edTPA). Candidates who seek a Practitioner
                        License must have a composite of 3.0 on the Teacher Evaluation used in their employing
                        district or have a letter verifying renewal by the employing district.
                     
                     
                     Students must be provisionally admitted to the Teacher Education Program (TEP) before
                        completing all Level I courses and starting Level II courses. (Level I Professional
                        Core courses provide requisite foundations for teaching and should be completed before
                        taking Level II Professional Specialization courses that focus on specialized strategies
                        for teaching and learning in educational environments).
                     
                     
                     Students who do not apply to TEP or fail to maintain criteria during the program will
                        not be allowed to continue in the program.
                     
                     
                     NOTE: MAT admission, TEP admission, and Graduate School admission are separate procedures.
                     
                     C. Program Requirements for the Master of Arts in Teaching
                     
                     Students seeking licensure and the MAT degree must take a minimum of 30-46 graduate
                        semester hours, depending on program and licensure area. Minimum hours may increase
                        depending on licensure requirements. Students who are employed by a school district
                        on a Practitioner License may have the Level III (clinical teaching semester) waived
                        if they provide the necessary documentation to verify one year of successful teaching
                        experience in their area of licensure with a composite Teacher Evaluation Score of
                        3.0 or higher. Students in this category should contact the Teacher Education Office
                        in 202 Ball Hall for specific requirements. Please note that all initial licensure
                        candidates must take ICL 7993, either along with clinical teaching semester or the
                        last semester before applying for license if working on a Practitioner License. This
                        course serves as the culminating experience and will require successful completion
                        of the Teacher Performance Assessment (edTPA) to be able to be recommended for licensure.
                     
                     
                     1. Program Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        Students seeking Early Childhood Licensure  (PreK-3) and the MAT degree must complete the following requirements:
                           
                              
                              Early Childhood (PreK-3) Level I Licensure Requirements: ECED 6510, EDPR 7110; ICL
                                 7106, SPED 7000; IDT 7061.
                              
                              
                              Early Childhood Level II and III Licensure Requirements: ECED 6520, 6530, 6540, 7102;
                                 RDNG 7553; ICL 7804 (6 hours), ICL 7993 (3 hours).
                              
                              
                              Students are required to complete a minimum number of structured field experiences
                                 during the day in PreK-3 settings prior to clinical teaching semester. These field
                                 experiences will be incorporated into courses required for licensure.
                              
                              
                              MAT Degree requirements in addition to (1), (2), and (3) above: EDPR 7521 and ICL
                                 7993 (Professional Seminar & Teacher Performance Assessment-3 Hours).
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Students seeking Elementary Licensure  (K-5) and the MAT degree must complete the following requirements:
                           
                              
                              Elementary (K-5) Level I Licensure Requirements: ICL 7059, SPED 7000; EDPR 7111; IDT
                                 7061.
                              
                              
                              Elementary Early Grades Level II and III Licensure Requirements: ICL 7504, 7605, 7654,
                                 7709; RDNG 7553, 7554; ICL 7806 (6 hours), 7993 (3 hours);
                              
                              
                              Elementary Early Grades students are required to complete a minimum number of structured
                                 field experiences during the day in elementary school settings prior to clinical teaching
                                 semester. These field experiences will be incorporated into courses required for licensure.
                              
                              
                              MAT Degree requirements in addition to (1), (2), and (3) above: EDPR 7521 and ICL
                                 7993 (Professional Seminar & Teacher Performance Assessment-3 Hours).
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Clinical teaching semester students seeking Secondary Licensure  and the MAT degree must complete the following requirements:
                           
                              
                              Secondary Level I Licensure Requirements: IDT 7061; SPED 7000; EDPR 7112 (or EDPR
                                 7117 or ASTL 7703 [TN eCampus]); ICL 7030 or TELC 7002 (TN eCampus);
                              
                              
                              Secondary Level II and III Licensure Requirements: RDNG 7545; 3 hours of appropriate
                                 methods courses ICL 7174, 7303, 7502, 7602, 7652; BUED 7655; and ICL 7808 (6 hours)
                                 and ICL 7993 (3 hours).
                              
                              
                              Students are required to complete a number of clinical/field experiences during the
                                 day in secondary school settings prior to clinical teaching semester. These field
                                 experiences will be incorporated into courses required for licensure.
                              
                              
                              MAT Degree Requirements in addition to (1), (2), and (3) above: EDPR 7521 and ICL
                                 7993 (Professional Seminar & Teacher Performance Assessment-3 Hours). Must be taken
                                 prior to clinical teaching semester and ICL 7993.
                              
                              
                              Students who wish to become licensed as a teacher of foreign languages that do not
                                 require a PRAXIS content knowledge test must pass the ACTFL Oral Proficiency Examination
                                 in addition to the requirements for licensure that other students must meet.
                              
                              
                              Students seeking secondary licensure must select one of the following endorsement
                                 areas: art education, biology, chemistry, earth science, English, English as a Second
                                 Language, French, geography, German, government, history, Latin, library information
                                 specialist, marketing, math, physics, political science, psychology, Russian, sociology,
                                 Spanish, and other foreign languages.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Students seeking Special Education Licensure  and the MAT degree must complete the following requirements:
                           
                              
                              Special Education Level I Licensure Requirements: EDPR 7110 or 7111; SPED 7000, 7001
                                 or PSYC 7800; ICL 7105 and 7106;
                              
                              
                              Special Education Level II and III Licensure Requirements: SPED 7211, 7212, 7221,
                                 7241 (6 hours), or PSYC 7808; and ICL 7993 (3 hours).
                              
                              
                              Licensure areas (choose one):
                                 
                                    
                                    Interventionist: RDNG 7553.
                                    
                                    Comprehensive (K-12): SPED 6000, 6601, 7042.
                                    
                                    Early Childhood (PreK-1): SPED 6601, 7121, 7141.
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              Students in the Interventionist Licensure program are required to complete a minimum
                                 of 116 clock hours of clinical/field experience during the day in special education
                                 settings prior to clinical teaching semester. Students in the Comprehensive and Early
                                 Childhood licensure programs are required to complete a minimum of 124 clock hours
                                 of clinical/field experience during the day in special education settings prior to
                                 clinical teaching semester. These field experiences will be incorporated into courses
                                 required for licensure.
                              
                              
                              MAT Degree Requirements: In addition to (1) through (4) above: EDPR 7521 and ICL 7993
                                 (Professional Seminar & Teacher Performance Assessment-3 Hours).
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        All students seeking teacher licensure must successfully pass clinical teaching semester
                           or must document successful completion of professional experience in lieu of clinical
                           teaching semester.
                           
                              
                              Students who are employed by a school district on a Practitioner License issued by
                                 the State of Tennessee may have the Level III clinical teaching semester waived if
                                 they provide the necessary documentation to verify one year of successful teaching
                                 experience and composite score of 3 or higher on the Teacher Evaluation used by their
                                 employing district.  They must also be successful with the Teacher Performance Assessment
                                 (edTPA) to be recommended for licensure. Students in this category should contact
                                 the Licensure Coordinator for specific requirements.
                              
                              
                              Students must enroll in the appropriate clinical teaching semester course during clinical
                                 teaching semester.
                              
                              
                              Applications for clinical teaching semester must be filed one semester before clinical
                                 teaching semester.
                              
                              
                              Application for documenting successful completion of professional experience in lieu
                                 of clinical teaching semester must be filed at the beginning of the first month of
                                 the semester in which the candidate plans to complete the approved academic program
                                 leading to final licensure. The Teacher Performance Assessment (edTPA) must be completed
                                 during the semester the candidate on a Practitioner License plans to apply for their
                                 Professional License.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Licensure in Tennessee requires acceptable scores on specified Praxis II Tests of
                           pedagogy and teaching content knowledge.
                        
                        
                        Validation of methods courses is not permitted.
                        
                     
                     
                     2. Retention
                     
                     To remain in the Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) and the Teacher Education Program
                        (TEP) the student must maintain a graduate grade point average of 3.25. Failure to
                        maintain a 3.25 GPA will result in termination of a candidate's TEP status and will
                        result in academic probation in the MAT program.
                     
                     
                     III. MS Degree Program
                     
                     This program is designed for students who are seeking advanced study and professional
                        development in education focusing on Instruction and Curriculum, Instructional Design
                        and Technology, Reading, Early Childhood Education, or Special Education. Specific
                        program requirements for the listed concentrations are found on the ICL website. 
                        An option for students seeking the MS degree with a concentration in Instruction and
                        Curriculum is to complete program requirements that prepare students to apply for
                        a Tennessee Library Information Specialist Endorsement.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admission
                     
                     Admission to the Graduate School and admission to a specific ICL graduate program
                        are separate procedures. Applicants must submit the following admissions materials
                        before the application will be reviewed:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        An application to the Graduate School that includes:
                           
                              
                              Official transcripts of undergraduate and graduate study;
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Applicants who are not native speakers of English and are not graduates of The University
                           of Memphis must supply a minimum score of 550 on the paper, a 210 on the computer-based,
                           or 79 on the internet based Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL).
                        
                        
                        Submit the ICL Department MS Application along with two letters of recommendation
                           on letterhead, preferably one from a college/university professor to the Graduate
                           Analyst in Ball Hall 215 (3798 Walker Ave, Memphis, TN 38152). All application information
                           must be received by February 1 for summer semesters, April 1 for fall semesters, and
                           October 1 for spring semesters.
                        
                        
                        The above criteria represent the minimum acceptable admission requirements. Depending
                           on the applicant's educational background, the graduate committee may require additional
                           coursework to prepare the student for advanced master's level studies.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Multiple criteria will be used when considering applicant admission, including, but
                        not limited to, undergraduate and graduate grade point averages, scores of the submitted
                        tests, and letters of recommendation.
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements for the MS degree
                     
                     
                        
                        A minimum of 30 graduate semester hours is required.
                        
                        2. The major will consist of 12 semester hours including courses identified by the
                           concentration and ICL 7992 Master's Project or IDT 7095 Developing Interactive Learning
                           Environments or SPED 7900 Advanced Practicum.
                        
                        
                        EDPR 7521 Introduction to Educational Research
                        
                        Fifteen (15) semester hours of electives are required. Courses taken depend on the
                           undergraduate background, previous experiences of the student, and the nature of the
                           major area of concentration. These courses must be approved by the assigned advisor
                           and support the major area of study.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     IV. MEd Degree Program
                     
                     This program is based on the assumption that all participants will be fully licensed
                        teachers who are currently teaching in classrooms. Furthermore, this program is based
                        on the assumption that all courses will base course content and learning experiences
                        on the student's work as a classroom teacher. Most courses will include assignments
                        that teachers will carry out in their own classrooms.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admission
                     
                     Applicants must submit complete admissions information, including:
                     
                     
                        
                        Application to the Graduate School, including:
                           
                              
                              Official transcripts of undergraduate and graduate study
                              
                              Applicants who are not native speakers of English and are not graduates of The University
                                 of Memphis must supply a minimum score of 550 on the paper, a 210 on the computer-based,
                                 or 79 on the internet based Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL).
                              
                              
                              Copy of a valid teaching license.
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Submit two letters of recommendation on letterhead, preferably one from a college/university
                           professor, to the Graduate Analyst in Ball Hall 215 (3798 Walker Ave, Memphis, TN
                           38152).
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Multiple criteria will be used when considering applicant admission, including, but
                        not limited to, undergraduate and graduate grade point averages, scores of the submitted
                        tests, and letters of recommendation. Admission to the Graduate School and admission
                        to a specific ICL graduate program are separate procedures.
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements for the MEd degree
                     
                     
                        
                        A minimum of 33 graduate semester hours is required.
                        
                        The degree will consist of all courses associated with the TN eCampus Master of Education
                           Degree in Advanced Studies in Teaching and Learning (ASTL).
                        
                        
                        Courses in this program of study cannot be used to satisfy required course work in
                           MAT or MS degree programs.
                        
                        
                        For a list of required courses, please contact the Department of Instruction and Curriculum
                           Leadership or go to www.tn.regentsdegrees.org/ .
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     V. EdD Degree Program
                     
                     The primary purposes of the doctoral programs in the Department of Instruction and
                        Curriculum Leadership are to prepare candidates for positions as teacher educators
                        and researchers in colleges and universities; or, to produce experts in research and
                        development who can lead initiatives to analyze, implement, and evaluate instructional
                        materials and learning environments.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admission Admission to the Graduate School and admission to a specific ICL graduate program
                        are separate procedures. Applicants must submit the following admissions information:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Application to the Graduate School that includes:
                           
                              
                              Official Graduate Record Examination (GRE) score (verbal, quantitative, and writing)
                              
                              Official transcripts of undergraduate and graduate study
                              
                              Applicants who are not native speakers of English and are not graduates of The University
                                 of Memphis must supply a minimum score of 550 on the paper, a 210 on the computer-based,
                                 or 79 on the internet based Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL).
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Application to the program in the Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership
                           (departmental applications can be obtained via the ICL web site  ( http://www.memphis.edu/icl/docs/edd_application_pc.docx ) that includes:
                           
                              
                              Two letters of recommendation from people familiar with the applicant's academic background
                                 and aptitude for graduate work, specifying in detail the applicant's capabilities
                                 for doctoral study and for future performance and scholarship. At least one letter
                                 from a college/university professor is preferred.
                              
                              
                              A written statement of 500 to 1000 words (maximum) indicating the intended area of
                                 focus in the doctoral program and the applicant's present interests and career goals.
                              
                              
                              Interviews with two faculty members (one from the student’s area of interest) that
                                 must be completed prior to the College deadlines. The doctoral application file must
                                 be completed before an interview will be scheduled. Submit the Department of Instruction
                                 and Curriculum Leadership application to the Graduate Analyst in Ball Hall 215 (3798
                                 Walker Ave, Memphis, TN 38152).
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Each student’s file will be evaluated prior to full admission to the Department of
                           Instruction and Curriculum Leadership. Only those files that are completed by the
                           admission deadline will be considered. All application information must be received
                           by February 1 for summer semesters, April 1 for fall semesters, and October 1 for
                           the spring semester with the exception of applications for the EdD in the Instructional
                           Design and Technology (IDT) program area, which has a summer admission only with a
                           February 15 deadline.
                        
                        
                        The above criteria represent the minimum acceptable admission requirements. Depending
                           on the applicant’s educational background, the graduate committee may require additional
                           coursework to prepare the student for doctoral studies.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements for the EdD Degree
                     
                     
                        
                        A minimum total of 54 post-master’s hours.
                        
                        The major will consist of 42-45 hours, including the department core requirements: 
                           Professional Seminar (ICL 8200), The Nature of Knowledge (ICL 8005), 12 hours of dissertation
                           credit (ICL 9000). NOTE: Students must adhere to the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide when writing their dissertation. (This does not apply to IDT whose doctoral students
                           are expected to follow the program of study for the IDT major concentration.)
                        
                        
                        The research requirement for ICL will consist of  9-12 hours which includes EDPR 8541,
                           8561, and 3 - 6 additional elective research hours in consultation with advisor. The
                           elective research  hours should consist of courses directed toward research and/or
                           statistical techniques and procedures necessary for the discipline and the dissertation
                           topic. (This does not apply to IDT whose doctoral students are expected to follow
                           the program of study for the IDT major concentration.)
                        
                        
                        Approved transfer credit or post-master’s courses may be accepted for not more than
                           12 semester hours.
                        
                        
                        Completion of the college residency requirements.
                        
                     
                     
                     Additional information pertaining to the major and concentration areas may be secured
                        from the Chair or Graduate Coordinator of the Department of Instruction and Curriculum
                        Leadership.
                     
                     
                     VI. Online Certificate in Instructional Design and Technology
                     
                     A. Admission
                     
                     Students interested in receiving a Certificate in Instructional Design and Technology
                        must be admitted to this graduate certificate program. The courses may be completed
                        as part of a degree program with the advisor’s approval.
                     
                     
                     This certificate program has two tracks: (1) K-12 Educational Technology and (2) Design
                        and Development. Each requires 12 credit hours of online coursework as described below.
                     
                     
                     B. Requirements
                     
                     Track One: K-12 Educational Technology:
                     
                     This track is designed for educators who want to integrate the use of computers in
                        the classroom. The focus of these courses is to develop the technology competencies
                        needed for the development, utilization, and integration of instructional computing
                        technology in the classroom.
                     
                     
                     Students may choose four of the following courses for the Educational Technology Track:
                     
                     
                        
                        IDT 7060/8060 Technology Tools for Learning
                        
                        IDT 7061/8061 Technology Integration in the Classroom
                        
                        IDT 7062/8062 Introduction to Computer-Based Instruction
                        
                        IDT 7063/8063 Seminar in Instructional Computing
                        
                        IDT 7064/8064 School Change and the Internet
                        
                     
                     
                     Track Two: Design and Development:
                     
                     This track is designed for instructional designers and developers who work in non-education
                        related settings such as business, government, military, and health care.
                     
                     
                     The following four courses are required for the Design and Development Track:
                     
                     
                        
                        IDT 7060/8060 Technology Tools for Learning
                        
                        IDT 7070/8070 Instructional Design Process I
                        
                        IDT 7080/8080 Instructional Design Process II
                        
                        IDT 7090/8090 Dev Interactve Lrng Envirnmt I
                        
                     
                     
                     More information about the Certificate is located at this web site: www.memphis.edu/idt
                     
                     C. Graduation Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        The student must complete all four required courses with a grade of an A or B for
                           each course, for a total of 12 credit hours.
                        
                        
                        In the semester of graduation, the student must submit the Apply to Graduate form
                           to the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to Graduate Analyst
                           in Ball Hall 215 (3798 Walker Ave., Memphis, TN 38152) by the deadline specified by
                           the Graduate School.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     VII. Graduate Certificate in Literacy Leadership and Coaching
                     
                     The Certificate in Literacy Leadership and Coaching will provide teachers the knowledge
                        and experiences to become outstanding literacy leaders in schools and districts. This
                        certificate program recognizes students' ability to design curriculum, supervise teachers,
                        and act as overall literacy leaders. The program will be taught completely online
                        by reading faculty within the Department of ICL at the University of Memphis.
                     
                     
                     The goal of the certificate program is to 1) offer literacy teachers education beyond
                        the state certified reading endorsement to prepare them to address the leadership
                        needs across the region and beyond, 2) provide an accelerated program of study that
                        will enable students to receive a Certificate in Literacy Leadership and Coaching
                        in a timely and meaningful fashion, and 3) give official recognition of an expertise
                        in literacy leadership to help students qualify for jobs both within and outside the
                        United States.
                     
                     
                     A. Admission
                     
                     Students interested in receiving a Certificate in Literacy Leadership and Coaching
                        must be admitted to this graduate certificate program and either be admitted to the
                        MS degree program in Reading or have an advanced degree in a related field. The courses
                        may be completed as part of a degree program with the advisor’s approval. 
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements:
                     
                     Completion of 15 semester hours distributed as follows: Required courses:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        RDNG 7000 Literacy and the English Language Learner
                        
                        RDNG 7540 Literacy Instruction in the Elementary School 
                        
                        RDNG 7541 Literacy Assessment and Intervention 
                        
                        RDNG 7544 Adolescent Literacy Instruction 
                        
                        RDNG 7560 Literacy Leader and Coach 
                        
                     
                     
                     C. Graduation Requirements:
                     
                     
                        
                        Must earn state reading endorsement (pass praxis and have three years teaching experience)
                        
                        The student must complete all five required courses with an average grade of B (3.0)
                           or higher, for a total of 15 credit hours.
                        
                        
                        In the semester of graduation, the student must submit the Apply to Graduate form to the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to the Graduate Analyst in Ball Hall 215 (3798 Walker Ave, Memphis, TN 38152) by
                           the deadline specified by the Graduate School.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     VIII. Graduate Certificate in Urban Education
                     
                     This certificate program offers an advanced program of study in the expansive and
                        distinct historical and contemporary knowledge, scholarship, and practical issues
                        related to instruction and curriculum leadership in an urban educational context that
                        has a diverse population, is geographically bounded, and is unique in its political,
                        economic and cultural history, relationships, and interactions. It complements existing
                        College of Education programs by offering a structured, focused course of study, consisting
                        of 12 credit hours of core courses. These courses may be completed as part of a degree
                        program with the advisor’s approval, or as additional course work.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admission
                     
                     Students interested in receiving a Certificate in Urban Education must apply and be
                        admitted to this graduate certificate program and preferably to a College of Education
                        graduate degree program, such as the master’s or doctoral major in the Department
                        of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership. Application is through the office of Graduate
                        Admissions. Applicants must also complete an interview with the certificate coordinator.
                        The courses may be completed as part of a degree program with the advisor’s approval.
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements
                     
                     The following four core courses are required for the Certificate in Urban Education: ICL 7701/8701 Advanced Workshop in Instruction & Curriculum: Urban Education ICL 7702/8702 Advanced Topics in Instruction & Curriculum: Urban Education ICL 7706 Family & Community Relations for Teachers ICL 8082 Seminar in Urban Education
                     
                     
                     C. Retention Requirements
                     
                     Same as retention policies applicable to Department of Instruction and Curriculum
                        Leadership graduate degree programs.
                     
                     
                     D. Graduation Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        The student must complete all four required courses with an average grade of B (3.0)
                           or higher, for a total of 12 credit hours.
                        
                        
                        In the semester of graduation, the student must submit the Apply to Graduate form
                           to the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to the Graduate Analyst
                           in Ball Hall 215 (3798 Walker Ave., Memphis, TN 38152) by the deadline specified by
                           the Graduate School.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     IX. Graduate Certificate in Autism Studies
                     
                     The purpose of the Graduate Certificate in Autism Studies is to provide practical
                        educational training to individuals who are presently working within healthcare, adult
                        disability and/or educational settings. This certificate course sequence will provide
                        a) an overview of autism spectrum disorders, b) instruction in making evidence-based
                        treatment decisions, and c) advanced instruction in designing, implementing, and monitoring
                        evidence-based instructional and behavior/classroom management programs.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        SPED 7600/8600 Introduction to Autism Spectrum Disorders (3)
                        
                        SPED 7601/8601 Autism Spectrum Disorders: Classroom Management & Designs (3)
                        
                        SPED 7602/8602 Autism Spectrum Disorders: Instructional Methods I (3)
                        
                        SPED 7603/8603 Autism Spectrum Disorders: Instructional Methods II (3)
                        
                     
                     
                     B. Graduation Requirements
                     
                     In order to graduate with the certificate, students must:
                     
                     
                        
                        Complete all four required courses with an average grade of B (3.0) or higher, for
                           a total of 12 credit hours.
                        
                        
                        In the semester of graduation, the student must submit the Apply to Graduate form
                           to the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to Graduate Analyst
                           in Ball Hall 215 (3798 Walker Ave., Memphis, TN 38152) by the deadline specified by
                           the Graduate School.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     X. Graduate Certificate in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics)
                           Teacher Leadership
                     
                     The goal of the certificate program in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and
                        Mathematics) Teacher Leadership is to develop the knowledge and skills of secondary
                        mathematics, science, and engineering teachers who are currently teaching in local
                        area schools. The coursework is designed to promote in-depth understanding of current
                        standards and instructional practices with a particular focus on building teacher
                        leaders in STEM education.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admission:
                     
                     Students interested in receiving a Certificate in STEM Teacher Leadership must be
                        apply to and be accepted to this graduate certificate program. Applicants must hold
                        a current teaching license. The courses may be completed as part of a degree program
                        with the advisor’s approval.
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements:
                     
                     A total of twelve (12) credit hours are required to complete this progra m.
                     
                     
                        
                        ICL 7720/8720, STEM Curriculum Leadership, 3 credits
                        
                        ICL 7721/8721, Seminar in STEM Teacher Development, 3 credits
                        
                        ICL 7722/8722, Teaching and Learning in STEM Classrooms, 3 credits
                        
                        ICL 7723/8723, Equity in STEM Education, 3 credits
                        
                     
                     
                     C. Graduation Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        The student must complete all four required courses with an average grade of B (3.0)
                           or higher, for a total of 12 credit hours.
                        
                        
                        In the semester of graduation, the student must submit the Apply to Graduate form
                           to the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to Graduate Analyst
                           in Ball Hall 215 (3798 Walker Ave., Memphis, TN 38152) by the deadline specified by
                           the Graduate School.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     XI. Graduate Certificate in School Library Information Specialist The purpose of the Graduate Certificate for School Library Information Specialists
                        is to provide practical training to individuals who are presently teaching or are
                        interested in obtaining teacher licensure with a specialization as a School Library
                        Information Specialist (TN DOE endorsement for Library Information Specialist PreK-12
                        - 473).
                     
                     A. Program Admission Students wanting to earn the Graduate Certificate for School Library Information Specialists
                        must have an earned Master's degree and apply to be accepted in this graduate certificate
                        program. Applicants must also hold a current teaching license or be in the process
                        of obtaining teacher licensure. The courses may be completed as part of a degree program
                        with the SLIS program coordinator and graduate advisor's approval.
                     
                     B. Program Requirements A total of twenty-one (21) credit hours are required to complete this program.
                     
                     
                        
                        ICL 7132 - Cataloguing and Classification, 3 credits
                        
                        ICL 7133 - School Library Administration, 3 credits
                        
                        ICL 7134 - Internet in the School Library, 3 credits
                        
                        ICL 7301 - Literature in the PreK-12 School, 3 credits
                        
                        ICL 7730 - Foundations of Librarianship, 3 credits
                        
                        ICL 7731 - Introduction to Bibliography, 3 credits
                        
                        ICL 7800 - Advanced Clinical Practicum for SLIS, 3-6 credits
                        
                     
                     
                     C. Graduation Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        The student must complete all seven required courses with a Grade Point Average (GPA)
                           of 3.0 or higher, for a total of 21 credit hours.
                        
                        
                        In the semester of the advanced clinical practicum, the student must submit a Graduate
                           Certificate Candidacy form to the COE Graduate Analyst in Ball Hall 215 (3798 Walker
                           Ave., Memphis, TN 38152) by the deadline specified by the Graduate School.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     XII . Graduate Certificate Program in Teaching in Diverse School Populations (currently
                           not accepting applications for this program)
                     
                     The purpose of the Graduate Certificate in Teaching in Diverse School Populations
                        is to provide practical and effective professional development for professionals who
                        are presently working with students from diverse backgrounds including school administrators
                        (principals, assistant principals, curriculum facilitators, central office personnel,
                        and counselors) and teachers in schools in the state of Tennessee. Individuals completing
                        this post baccalaureate certificate program will be able to: 1) makeprovide evidence-based
                        decisions specific to effective teaching and learning environments for students from
                        diverse student populations in urban, suburban, and rural venues; and 2) .design and
                        implement highly specialized evidence- based instructional programs for students from
                        diverse populations enrolled in classrooms in the state. Therefore, the College of
                        Education at the University of Memphis will serve as the regional educational hub
                        for those seeking expertise orin assistance in meeting the educational needs of students
                        from diverse populations and their families. Individuals graduating with the Graduate
                        Certificate in Teaching Students in Diverse Populations will serve those in our community
                        requiring this expertise, thus improving the lives of students and their families.
                        These courses may be completed as part of a degree program with the advisor's approval.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admission Students interested in receiving a Certificate in Teaching in Diverse School Population
                        must apply and be admitted to this graduate certificate program and preferably to
                        a College of Education graduate degree program, such as the master's or doctoral major
                        in the Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership. Application is through
                        the University Office of Graduate Admissions. Applicants must also complete an interview
                        with the certificate coordinator. The courses may be completed as part of a degree
                        program with the advisor's approval.
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements Completion of 12 semester hours distributed as follows:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        ICL 7080 Instruction In Multiethnic Schools
                        
                        ICL 7706 Family and Community Relations
                        
                        ICL 7707 Using Data to Inform Teaching
                        
                        ICL 8999 Supervised Research
                        
                     
                     
                     C. Retention Requirements Same as retention policies applicable to Department of Instruction and Curriculum
                        Leadership graduate degree programs.
                     
                     
                     D. Graduation Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        The student must complete all four required courses with an average grade of B (3.0)
                           or higher for a total of 12 credit hours.
                        
                        
                        In the semester of graduation, the student must apply to graduate from the University
                           Graduate School and a graduate Certification form to the ICL Graduate Office in Ball
                           Hall 215 by the deadline specified by the University Graduate School.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     XIII. Teacher Leader Certificate The Teacher Leader Certificate Program at the University of Memphis is designed to
                        prepare practitioners in the field of education to develop leadership skills to support
                        instruction at the school level. This four course certificate can be completed in
                        three semesters. Specific focus will be placed upon developing leadership styles,
                        using data to improve student learning and developing instructional skills to support
                        colleagues. Please note that this certificate program does not lead to Tennessee licensure or
                           certification.
                     
                     A. Admission Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        Meet all Graduate School admission requirements
                        
                        Have Undergraduate/Graduate GPA of 3.0
                        
                        Submit a letter of recommendation from local school district
                        
                        Hold a Professional Teacher License
                        
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements Completion of 12 semester hours distributed as follows:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        ICL 7/8309 – Developing Instructional Leaders (3)
                        
                        ICL 7/8310 – Supporting Content Specific Instruction (3)
                        
                        ICL 7/8707 – Using Data to Inform Teaching (3)
                        
                        ICL 7/8810 – Teacher Leader Practicum (3)
                        
                     
                     
                     C. Retention Requirements Same as retention policies applicable to Department of Instruction and Curriculum
                        Leadership graduate degree programs.
                     
                     
                     D. Graduation Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        The student must complete all four required courses with an average grade of B (3.0)
                           or higher for a total of 12 credit hours.
                        
                        
                        In the semester of graduation, the student must apply to graduate from the University
                           Graduate School and a graduate Certification form to the ICL Graduate Office in Ball
                           Hall 215 by the deadline specified by the University Graduate School.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     For more information, please contact: Dr. Annette Cornelius acornels@memphis.edu 901.678.5093 or 731.425.7993
                     
                     
                     XIV. Graduate Retention Policy
                     
                     It is the student’s responsibility to obtain a copy of the retention policy from the
                        departmental office.
                     
                     
                     Click here for course descriptions
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/18/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/edu/icl.php
