http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/nurs.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                              	Degree Planning
                              	
                        School of Nursing
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Loewenberg College of Nursing
                     
                     LIN ZHAN, PhD, RN, FAAN Dean Community Health Building 901.678.2003
                     
                     SHIRLEATHA LEE, PhD, RN, CNE Associate Dean for Academic Programs http://www.memphis.edu/nursing
                     
                     
                     
                     I. The Loewenberg College of Nursing  offers graduate programs leading to the Master of Science in Nursing with concentrations
                        in (1) Nursing Administration, (2) Nursing Education, (3) Advanced Practice Nursing
                        (Family Nurse Practitioner), and (4) Executive Leadership. A post-master's certificate
                        is offered in the areas of Advanced Practice Nursing (Family Nurse Practitioner),
                        Nursing Administration, and Nursing Education.
                     
                     
                     In addition, the Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) degree is offered through TN eCampus
                        and is delivered following the standard protocol established for the delivery of TN
                        eCampus courses and programs ( www.tnecampus.info/masters-science-nursing ). The program includes three concentrations: Nursing Education, Nursing Administration
                        and Family Nurse Practitioner. The MSN Program Outcomes are as follows:
                     
                     
                     The MSN program prepares the graduate to: 
                     
                     
                        
                        Integrate knowledge and theories from nursing and related disciplines into advanced
                           nursing practice roles. 
                        
                        
                        Translate best research evidence, informatics, and technologies into advanced nursing
                           practice to improve health and provide safe, high quality, cost-effective care to
                           diverse populations. 
                        
                        
                        Practice advanced nursing independently and collaboratively with healthcare teams
                           to address complex situations and coordinate care. 
                        
                        
                        Employ advocacy strategies from an advanced practice perspective to shape policy that
                           influences health and healthcare.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Students may not enroll for courses as graduate non-degree except by permission of
                        the instructor and with approval of the Director of MSN Nursing Programs. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School
                        (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued.
                     
                     
                     II. MSN Degree A. Admission
                     
                     Because the University seeks to provide in as much as possible a reasonably safe environment
                        for its health career students and their patients, students may be required during
                        the course of the program to demonstrate their physical and/or emotional fitness to
                        meet the essential requirements of the program. Such essential requirements include
                        freedom from communicable diseases, the ability to perform certain physical tasks,
                        and suitable emotional fitness. Any appraisal measures used to determine such physical
                        and/or emotional fitness will be in compliance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation
                        Act of 1973 and the American with Disabilities Act of 1990, so as not to discriminate
                        against any individual on the basis of disability.
                     
                     
                     Core performance standards for admission and progression:
                     
                     
                        
                        Critical thinking ability sufficient for clinical judgment.
                        
                        Interpersonal abilities sufficient to interact with individuals, families, and groups
                           from a variety of social, emotional, cultural, and intellectual backgrounds.
                        
                        
                        Communication abilities sufficient for interaction with others in verbal and written
                           form.
                        
                        
                        Physical abilities sufficient to move from room to room and maneuver in small spaces.
                        
                        Gross and fine motor abilities sufficient to provide safe and effective nursing care.
                        
                        Auditory ability sufficient to monitor and assess health needs.
                        
                        Visual ability sufficient for observation and assessment necessary in nursing care.
                        
                        Tactile ability sufficient for physical assessment. 
                        
                     
                     
                     Admission Requirements
                     
                     Admission to both the Graduate School and the Loewenberg College of Nursing is required. Admission
                        to the program will be based on competitive selection from the pool of applicants.
                        Multiple criteria will be used when considering applicant admission including, but
                        not limited to, letter of interest, undergraduate and graduate grade point averages,
                        professional experience, applicant interview, and letters of recommendation. 
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Admission Requirements for MSN Applicants:
                           
                              
                              Admission to the University of Memphis Graduate School
                              
                              Admission to the Loewenberg College of Nursing graduate nursing program.
                              
                              An undergraduate minimum cumulative grade point average of 2.8 on a 4.0 scale.
                              
                              Letter of interest which discusses prior professional experience, future career goals,
                                 and reasons for pursuing graduate study.
                              
                              
                              Letters of recommendation from three persons qualified and familiar to judge the applicant's academic
                                 and professional background and experience in nursing practice, specifying in detail
                                 the applicant's capabilities for graduate study and for future practice as an advanced
                                 practice nurse.
                              
                              
                              Interview with LCON graduate faculty if requested by Admissions Committee.
                              
                              Submission of current professional resume
                              
                              Applicants for whom English is not their primary language are required to meet the
                                 University's minimum required TOEFL score: paper based 550 or greater; internet based
                                 79; or 213 computer based.
                              
                              
                              Eligibility to practice as a Registered Nurse in Tennessee or in an approved state
                                 in which the clinical assignments are completed. Appropriate licensure/authorization
                                 must be obtained during the first semester following admission to the program.
                              
                              
                              Students transferring from another graduate nursing program must submit a letter of
                                 good standing and transcript from the dean/director of the previous nursing program.
                              
                              
                              The standardized admission test is successful completion of the NCLEX licensing examination.
                              
                              Successful completion of 3 semester hour or 4 quarter hour undergraduate statistics
                                 course.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Admission Requirements for individuals with a BSN Degree
                           
                              
                              Completion of BSN
                              
                              An unrestricted registered nursing license to practice in Tennessee or license to
                                 practice in an approved state in which clinical assignments are to be completed.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Admission Requirements for Registered Nurse Applicants with a BA/BS non-nursing major 
                           
                              
                              An unrestricted registered nursing license to practice in Tennessee or license to
                                 practice in an approved state in which clinical assignments are to be completed.
                              
                              
                              Completion of a 12-unit RN/MSN nursing bridge sequence. RN/MSN graduates will not
                                 be awarded the BSN degree.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Students admitted to MSN program, or post master's certificate programs must have
                           and maintain while in the program:
                           
                              
                              An unrestricted license to practice as a registered nurse in Tennessee or license
                                 to practice in an approved state in which clinical assignments are to be completed.
                              
                              
                              Current CPR certification.
                              
                              Evidence of hepatitis B (Heptavax); measles, mumps, rubella (MMR); polio; tetanus,
                                 diptheria, pertussis (Tdap), and varicella vaccinations and/or titers if available.
                              
                              
                              Freedom from tuberculosis as evidenced by a negative PPD or health provider examination.
                              
                              Annual flu shot vaccination, unless medically contraindicated.
                              
                              Evidence of current professional malpractice insurance in the amount of $1,000,000
                                 per occurrence and $6,000,000 in the aggregate.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     B. MSN Program Requirements - Students enrolled in the MSN program must complete 36-46 semester hours (based on
                        concentration area) with the minimum overall grade point average of 3.0.
                     
                     
                     1. Nursing Administration Concentration (36 credit hours)
                     
                     The Masters of Science in Nursing (MSN) with a concentration in Nursing Administration prepares
                        nurses for leadership, management and executive positions in health care system settings.
                        The Nursing Administration program integrates nursing, business and management, leadership,
                        and healthcare principles to prepare nurses in this concentration.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Core Curriculum (credit hours in parentheses)
                           
                              
                              NURS 7001 Healthcare Policy (3)
                              
                              NURS 7002 Advanced Nursing Research (3)
                              
                              NURS 7990 Scholarly Synthesis (3)
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Nursing Administration Concentration Required Courses
                           
                              
                              NURS 7000 Theoretical Foundations for Advanced Practice (3)
                              
                              NURS 7003 Advanced Role Development (3)
                              
                              NURS 7301 Nursing Administration I (3)
                              
                              NURS 7302 Nursing Administration II (3)
                              
                              NURS 7305 Quality Management (3)
                              
                              Students must select one of the following course combinations:
                                 
                                    
                                    ACCT 7000 Fundamentals of Accounting (3) and ACCT 7010 Accounting Decision Making
                                       (3) or
                                    
                                    
                                    ACCT 7000 Fundamentals of Accounting (3) and NURS 7332 Resource Allocation in Nursing
                                       (3) or
                                    
                                    
                                    NURS 7303 Healthcare Finance (3) and NURS 7304 Human Resource Management (3)
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              NURS 7307 Nursing Management Practicum (2) (120 clock hours)
                              
                              NURS 7309 Administrative Residency (4) (240 clock hours)
                              
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     2. Nursing Education Concentration (40 credit hours)
                     
                     The MSN with a concentration in Nursing Education prepares the student as a nurse
                        educator to teach in schools of nursing programs and in various health care system
                        settings. Among their course of study, students will learn about nursing and educational
                        theories, learning strategies, curricular development, program planning and evaluation,
                        and develop skills in different teaching methodologies.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Core Curriculum (credit hours in parentheses)
                           
                              
                              NURS 7001 Healthcare Policy (3)
                              
                              NURS 7002 Advanced Nursing Research (3)
                              
                              NURS 7990 Scholarly Synthesis (3)
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Nursing Education Concentration Required Courses:
                           
                              
                              NURS 7000 Theoretical Foundations for Advanced Practice (3)
                              
                              NURS 7003 Advanced Role Development (3)
                              
                              NURS 7103 Advanced Pathophysiology (3)
                              
                              NURS 7101 Advanced Health Assessment(3)
                              
                              NURS 7102 Advanced Health Assessment-Clinical (1)
                              
                              NURS 7104 Advanced Pharmacology (3)
                              
                              NURS 7204 Curriculum Design and Education Theory (3)
                              
                              NURS 7205 Evaluation in Nursing Education (3)
                              
                              One of the following clinical focus courses:
                                    
                                    NURS 7505 Adult Health Nursing (3)
                                    
                                    NURS 7525 Critical Care (3)
                                    
                                    NURS 7635 Pediatric Nursing (3)
                                    
                                    NURS 7515 Psych-Mental Health (3)
                                    
                                    NURS 7545 Women's Health & Perinatal Nursing (3)
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              NURS 7207 Clinical Focus Practicum (2) (120 clock hours)
                              
                              NURS 7209 Education Residency (4) (240 clock hours)
                              
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     3. Family Nurse Practitioner Concentration (46 credit hours)
                     
                     The MSN with a concentration in Advanced Practice Nursing  ( Family Nurse Practitioner) prepares advanced practice nurses who deliver primary health
                        care to all ages; individuals and families throughout the lifespan and across the
                        health continuum. Among their course of study, students will be provided with knowledge
                        and clinical skills necessary for health promotion, disease prevention, assessment,
                        and management of common acute and chronic illnesses.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Core Curriculum (credit hours in parentheses)
                           
                              
                              NURS 7001 Healthcare Policy (3)
                              
                              NURS 7002 Advanced Nursing Research (3)
                              
                              NURS 7990 Scholarly Synthesis (3)
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Family Nurse Practitioner Concentration Required Courses
                           
                              
                              NURS 7000 Theoretical Foundations for Advanced Practice (3)
                              
                              NURS 7003 Advanced Role Development (3)
                              
                              NURS 7101/02 Advanced Health Assessment (3)/Advanced Health Assessment Clinic (1)
                              
                              NURS 7103 Advanced Pathophysiology (3)
                              
                              NURS 7104 Advanced Pharmacology (3)
                              
                              NURS 7601/7602 Family Nurse Practitioner I (3)/ Family Nurse Practitioner I Clinic
                                 (2) (120 clock hours)
                              
                              
                              NURS 7603/7604 Family Nurse Practitioner II (3)/ Family Nurse Practitioner II Clinic
                                 (4) (240 clock hours)
                              
                              
                              NURS 7605/7606 Family Nurse Practitioner III (3)/ Family Nurse Practitioner III Clinic
                                 (2) (120 clock hours)
                              
                              
                              NURS 7609 Advanced Practice Residency (4) (240 clock hours)
                              
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     4. Executive Leadership (Executive MSN)
                     
                     The Executive MSN program prepares nurses for management and executive nursing positions
                        in various health care setting systems. The Executive Leadership MSN program is based
                        upon well founded principles, including the American Nurse Credentialing Center (ANCC)
                        Magnet® Recognition Program 5 Model Components. The American Organization of Nurse
                        Executive (AONE) Competencies, the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF)Executive
                        Nurse Fellows Program, and the American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN)
                        Essentials of Master’s Education in Nursing.  The program is an academic partner of
                        the ANCC Magnet® Recognition Program.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Core Curriculum (credit hours in parentheses)
                           
                              
                              NURS 7001 Healthcare Policy (3)
                              
                              NURS 7002 Advanced Nursing Research (3)
                              
                              NURS 7990 Scholarly Synthesis (3)
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Executive Leadership Concentration Required Courses
                           
                              
                              NURS 7007 Advanced Role Development for Nurse Executives (3)
                              
                              NURS 7901 Relationship Building for the Nurse Executive (3)
                              
                              NURS 7903 Accountability and Advocacy for Nurse Executives (3)
                              
                              ACCT 7080 Financial/Managerial Account Managers(3)
                              
                              NURS 7303 Health Care Finance (3)
                              
                              NURS 7904 Financial Management and Resource Allocation for Patient Care (3)
                              
                              NURS 7905 Improving Patient Care Delivery (3)
                              
                              NURS 7907 Evidence Based Leadership Practices (3)
                              
                              NURS 7909 Nurse Executive Practicum (4) (240 clock hours)
                              
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     C. Progression and Retention Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        Students in the Loewenberg College of Nursing graduate program must comply with all
                           retention standards of the University of Memphis Graduate School.
                        
                        
                        Students must earn a grade of "B" or better in all clinical and lab courses (NURS
                           7102; 7602; 7604; 7606; 7609; 7207; 7209; 7307; 7309; 7909) in order to graduate.
                        
                        
                        Graduate students must maintain a 3.0 GPA ("B"). Grades of "D" and "F" will not apply
                           toward any graduate degree, but will be computed in the GPA. No more than 7 hours
                           of "C-", "C," or "C+" will be applied towards meeting degree requirements.
                        
                        
                        The grade "I" (Incomplete) may be assigned by the faculty member in any course in
                           which the student is unable to complete the work due to extraordinary events beyond
                           the individual's control that are acceptable to the faculty member. The "I" may not
                           be used to extend the term for students who complete the course with an unsatisfactory
                           grade. Unless the student completes the requirements for removal of the "I" within
                           90 days from the end of the semester or summer session in which it was received (see
                           University Calendar), the "I" will change to an "F," whether or not the student is
                           enrolled. The faculty member may grant up to a 45-day extension if sufficient extenuating
                           circumstances exist. At the end of the extension period, the "I" grade will automatically
                           revert to "F" if the student has not completed the requirements. The student will
                           be certified for graduation only when all requirements are met, including the removal
                           of "I" grades. If a student has an "I" in a course necessary to fulfill degree requirements
                           in the semester in which he or she expects to graduate, the certification process
                           and graduation will automatically be deferred to the next term. 
                        
                        
                        Academic disqualification from the graduate nursing major will occur when the student:
                           
                              
                              fails to maintain a 3.0 GPA in graduate school.
                              
                              fails to earn a grade of "B" (3.0) or better when repeating a course.
                              
                              willfully misrepresents patient data or clinical practice.
                              
                              willfully places any patient in physical or emotional jeopardy.
                              
                              is placed on probation by the Tennessee Board of Nursing.
                              
                              fails to disclose a felony conviction.
                              
                              fails to disclose disciplinary action or diversion by the Tennessee Board of Nursing.
                              
                              fails to complete all degree requirements within five years of entering graduate nursing
                                 coursework.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Before being recommended for graduation, every candidate for the master's degree in
                           nursing is required to either pass a final comprehensive examination or complete the
                           oral defense of a thesis. The written examination will place emphasis on the student's
                           area of concentration and will be administered by selected nursing faculty each semester.
                           The candidate must be registered in the semester the comprehensive exam is taken.
                        
                        
                        When the student elects to complete a thesis, the candidate must enroll for thesis
                           credit each semester until the thesis is completed. Students must register for thesis
                           credit in the semester in which they defend.
                        
                        
                        Family Nurse Practitioner students must complete a minimum of 500 clock hours to meet
                           the academic and practicum requirement for national certification.
                        
                        
                        All requirements for the MSN degree must be completed in 5 calendar years.
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     The Loewenberg College of Nursing also offers an Accelerated Bachelor's And Master's
                           (RN-BSN-MSN) Degree in Nursing Education or Nursing Administration.  This program is for registered nurses who do not have a bachelor's degree in nursing
                        or another discipline or for those individuals with an associate degree or diploma
                        in nursing.
                     
                     
                     Admission Requirements: The applicant must:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Be admitted to the U of M as a degree seeking RN-BSN-MSN student.
                        
                        Have a minimum college cumulative GPA of 2.8 complete Anatomy and Physiology I and
                           II with lab and Microbiology with lab in seven (7) years of LCON admission with a
                           grade of "C" or better.
                        
                        
                        Have completed the following prerequisite courses with a grade of "C" or better (English
                           Comp I and II, Intro to Sociology or General Psychology, Math, and Nutrition).
                        
                        
                        Have an active, unencumbered RN license, or be eligible for licensure.
                        
                        Be licensed in the state of TN or an approved state in which they will complete their
                           clinical course work.
                        
                        
                        Complete and submit an application for admission to the Loewenberg College of Nursing
                           RN-BSN-MSN Program for students without a BA or BS degree.
                        
                        
                        If transferring from another nursing program, applicants must submit a letter of good
                           standing from the dean/director of the previous nursing program, along with a transcript,
                           and meet LCON admission and progression standards as stated in the Undergraduate Catalog.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Progression and Retention Requirements: The student must:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        While in undergraduate level courses comply with all the retention standards of the
                           University of Memphis as stated in the Undergraduate Catalog.
                        
                        
                        While in graduate level courses comply with all retention and progression standards
                           of the University of Memphis Graduate School.
                        
                        
                        Fulfill the general education requirements for the University of Memphis in order
                           for BSN degree to be awarded.
                        
                        
                        Have a GPA of 2.8 or greater at the awarding of the BSN to successfully progress to
                           the MSN program.
                        
                        
                        Successfully complete the undergraduate nursing courses prior to entering the graduate
                           level courses. The courses counting toward both the BSN and MSN degree must be taken
                           prior to entering other graduate nursing courses, or taken concurrently with another
                           graduate course in the semester the BSN is awarded.
                        
                        
                        Follow the progression and retention requirements of both the LCON Graduate Program
                           and University of Memphis Graduate School upon receiving the BSN and after entering
                           the MSN portion of the program.
                        
                        
                        Maintain a 3.0 GPA ("B"). Grades of "D" and "F" will not apply toward any graduate
                           degree, but will be computed in the GPA. No more than 7 hours of "C-", "C," or "C+"
                           will be applied towards meeting degree requirements. 
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Accelerated Bachelor and Master (RN-BSN-MSN) in Nursing with a concentration in Nursing
                           Administration
                     
                     
                        
                        NURS 3000 Pharmacology (3)
                        
                        NURS 3101 Health Assessment (2)
                        
                        NURS 3102 Health Assessment Lab (1)
                        
                        NURS 3400 Clinical Pathophysiology (3)
                        
                        NURS 4127 Community Health Nursing (3)
                        
                        NURS 4129 Community Health Nursing Practicum (1)
                        
                        NURS 4205 Transitions into Professional Nursing Practice (4)
                        
                        NURS 4206 Transitions into Professional Nursing Practice Practicum (8)
                        
                        NURS 7003 Advanced Role Development (3*) (Counts for NURS3005/3006 _Professional Nursing)
                        
                        NURS 7002 Advanced Nursing Research (3*) (Counts for NURS 4110 – Evidence Based Practice)
                        
                     
                     
                     (*courses count toward BSN and MSN degree) MSN degree to be awarded at the completion
                        of above.) The following courses are required for the MSN in Nursing Administration
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        NURS 7000 Theoretical Foundations of Advanced Nursing Practice (3)
                        
                        NURS 7001 Health Care Policy (3)
                        
                        NURS 7990 Scholarly Synthesis (3)
                        
                        NURS 7301 Nursing Administration I (3)
                        
                        NURS 7302 Nursing Administration II (3)
                        
                        NURS 5303 Health Care Finance (3)
                        
                        NURS 5304 Human Resource Management (3)
                        
                        NURS 7305 Quality Management (3)
                        
                        NURS 7307 Nursing Management Practicum (2)
                        
                        NURS 7309 Nursing Administration Practicum (4)
                        
                     
                     
                     Total Nursing Credits: 61 credits RN-MSN Nursing Administration
                     
                     
                     Accelerated Bachelor and Master (RN-BSN-MSN) Nursing with concentration in Nursing
                           Education
                     
                     
                        
                        NURS 3005 Professional Nursing (2)
                        
                        NURS 3006 Professional Nursing Seminar (1)
                        
                        NURS 3000 Pharmacology(3)
                        
                        NURS 4127 Community Health Nursing (3)
                        
                        NURS 4129 Community Health Nursing Practicum (1)
                        
                        NURS 4205 Transitions into Professional Nursing Practice (4)
                        
                        NURS 4206 Transitions into Professional Nursing Practice Practicum (8)
                        
                        NURS 7101 Advanced Health Assessment (3*)
                        
                        NURS 7102 Advanced Health Assessment Lab (1)
                        
                        NURS 7103 Advanced Pathophysiology (3*)
                        
                        NURS 7002 Advanced Nursing Research (3*)
                        
                     
                     
                     *COUNTS TOWARD BOTH BSN AND MSN; AFTER COMPLETION OF ALL ABOVE BSN AWARDED
                     
                     
                        
                        NURS 7000 Theoretical Foundations of Advanced Nursing Practice (3)
                        
                        NURS 7001 Health Care Policy (3)
                        
                        NURS 7003 Advanced Role Development(3)
                        
                        NURS 7990 Scholarly Synthesis (3)
                        
                        NURS 7104 Pharmacology for Advanced Practice (3)
                        
                        NURS 7204 Curriculum Design and Education Theory (3)
                        
                        NURS 7205 Evaluation in Nursing Education (3)
                        
                        NURS 7207 Clinical Focus Practicum (120 clinical hours)(2)
                        
                        NURS 7209 Education Residency (240 clinical hours) (4)
                        
                     
                     
                     One of the following clinical focus courses (3)
                     
                     
                        
                        NURS 7505 Adult Health Nursing
                        
                        NURS 7525 Critical Care
                        
                        NURS 7635 Pediatric Nursing
                        
                        NURS 7515 Psych-Mental Health
                        
                        NURS 7545 Women's Health and Perinatal Nursing
                        
                     
                     
                     Total Nursing Credits RN-MSN: 62 Nursing Education
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                     III. Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) Post-Master's Certificate - The Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) Certificate program provides a formal program
                        of study for master's-prepared nurses interested in taking the national certification
                        exam to practice as a Family Nurse Practitioner. To be eligible to take the national
                        certification exam students must "successfully complete graduate didactic and clinical
                        requirements of a master's nurse practitioner program through a formal graduate-level
                        certificate or Master's level NP program in the desired area of practice." The FNP
                        Certificate program offers a formal program of study to meet this need for students
                        who already have the Master of Science in Nursing degree without requiring a second
                        master's degree.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Prerequisites -The following prerequisite courses must be completed at the master's level with a
                           grade of "B" or better prior to admission.
                           
                              
                              Advanced Health Assessment, (3 semester hours)
                              
                              Advanced Health Assessment, Clinical or Lab (1 semester hour)
                              
                              Advanced Pathophysiology, (3 semester hours)
                              
                              Advanced Pharmacology, (3 semester hours)
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Program Admission Admission to the program is based on competitive selection from the pool of applicants
                           who meet the College of Graduate Studies admission requirements. Additional admission requirements for the Family Nurse Practitioner Certificate Program
                           include:
                              
                              A Master's degree in nursing from an accredited program (NLNAC or CCNE).
                              
                              Satisfactory completion (B or better) of the following courses at the Master's level:
                                 
                                    
                                    Advanced Health Assessment : 3 semester hours
                                    
                                    Advanced Health Assessment - Clinical or lab : 1 semester hour
                                    
                                    Advanced Pathophysiology : 3 semester hours
                                    
                                    Advanced Pharmacology : 3 semester hours
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              Eligibility to practice as a Registered Nurse in Tennessee or in an approved state
                                 in which clinical assignments are completed. Appropriate licensure/authorization must
                                 be obtained prior to the start of the program.
                              
                              
                              Overall G.P.A. of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale
                              
                              Applicants for whom English is not their primary language are required to meet the
                                 University's minimum required TOEFL score.
                              
                              
                              A written document prepared by the applicant that includes a resume, a discussion
                                 of prior professional experience, future career goals, and reasons for pursuing graduate
                                 study.
                              
                              
                              Letters of recommendation from at least three persons familiar with the applicant's
                                 academic and professional background and experience in nursing practice, specifying
                                 in detail the applicant's capabilities for graduate study and for future practice
                                 as an advanced practice nurse.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Program Requirements (21 credit hours total)
                              
                              NURS 7601/7602 Family Nurse Practitioner I (3)/Clinic (2) (120 clock hours)
                              
                              NURS 7603/7604 Family Nurse Practitioner II (3)/Clinic (4) (240 clock hours)
                              
                              NURS 7605/7606 Family Nurse Practitioner III (3)/Clinic (2) (120 clock hours)
                              
                              NURS 7609 Advanced Practice Residency (4) (240 clock hours)
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Retention Retention requirements are the same as for the MSN degree. All requirements for the
                           post master certificate must be completed in 5 calendar years
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     IV. Nursing Education Post-Master's Certificate
                     
                     The Nursing Education Certificate program provides a formal program of study for masters
                        prepared nurses interested in obtaining a credential allowing them to teach in the
                        College of Nursing. The program provides them with content necessary to teach nursing
                        students in a specific area of nursing. Once students complete the certificate, they
                        would be eligible to sit for the national certification exam in this area.
                     
                     
                     A. Prerequisites -The following prerequisite courses must be completed at the master's level with
                        a grade of "B" or better prior to admission.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                              
                              Advanced Health Assessment, (3 credit hours)
                              
                              Advanced Health Assessment, Clinical or Lab (4 credit hours)
                              
                              Advanced Pathophysiology, (3 credit hours)
                              
                              Advanced Pharmacology, (3 credit hours) 
                              
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     B. Program Admission
                     
                     Admission to the program is based on competitive selection from the pool of applicants
                        who meet the College of Graduate Studies admission requirements. Additional admission requirements for the Nursing Education Post Masters Certificate
                        Program include:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        A Master's degree in nursing from an accredited program (NLNAC or CCNE).
                        
                        Satisfactory completion (B or better) of the following courses at the Master's level:
                           
                              
                              Advanced Health Assessment : 3 semester hours
                              
                              Advanced Health Assessment - Clinical or lab : 1 semester hour
                              
                              Advanced Pathophysiology : 3 semester hours
                              
                              Advanced Pharmacology : 3 semester hours 
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Eligibility to practice as a Registered Nurse in Tennessee or in an approved state
                           in which clinical assignments are completed. Appropriate licensure/authorization must
                           be obtained during the first semester following admission to the program.
                        
                        
                        Overall G.P.A. of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale
                        
                        Applicants for whom English is not their primary language are required to meet the
                           University's minimum required TOEFL score.
                        
                        
                        A written document prepared by the applicant that includes a resume, a discussion
                           of prior professional experience, future career goals, and reasons for pursuing graduate
                           study.
                        
                        
                        Letters of recommendation from at least three persons familiar with the applicant's
                           academic and/or professional background and experience in nursing practice, specifying
                           in detail the applicant's capabilities for graduate study and for future practice
                           as an advanced practice nurse.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     C. Program Requirements (15 credit hours total)
                     
                     
                        
                        NURS 7204 Curriculum Design And Education Theory (3)
                        
                        NURS 7205 Evaluation in Nursing Education(3)
                        
                        NURS 7207 Clinical Focus Practicum(2)
                        
                        NURS 7209 Nursing Education Practicum(4)
                        
                        One course from the following:
                           
                              
                              NURS 7505 Adult Health Nursing(3)
                              
                              NURS 7525 Critical Care(3)
                              
                              NURS 7635 Pediatric Nursing(3)
                              
                              NURS 7515 Psych-Mental Health (3)
                              
                              NURS 7545 Women's Health & Perinatal Nursing (3)
                              
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     D. Retention
                     
                     Retention requirements are the same as for the MSN degree. All requirements for the
                        post master certificate must be completed in 5 calendar years
                     
                     
                     V. Nursing Administration Post-Master's Certificate
                     
                     The Post Master’s Certificate in Nursing Administration provides a formal program
                        of study for students who hold a Master of Science in Nursing degree in another specialty.
                        The program provides them with content that provides a strong foundation in complex
                        systems, organizational theory, financial management, and leadership practice. 
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admission Admission to the program is based on competitive selection from the pool of applicants
                        who meet the College of Graduate Studies admission requirements.
                     
                     
                     Additional admission requirements for the Nursing Administration Post-Master’s Certificate
                        Program include:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                           A Master's degree in nursing from an accredited program (NLNAC or CCNE).
                           
                           Eligibility to practice as a Registered Nurse in Tennessee or in an approved state
                              in which clinical assignments are completed. Appropriate licensure/authorization must
                              be obtained during the first semester following admission to the program.
                           
                           
                           Overall G.P.A. of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale
                           
                           Applicants for whom English is not their primary language are required to meet the
                              University's minimum required TOEFL score.
                           
                           
                           A written document prepared by the applicant that includes a resume, a discussion
                              of prior professional experience, future career goals, and reasons for pursuing graduate
                              study.
                           
                           
                           Letters of recommendation from at least three persons (a minimum of one academic)
                              familiar with the applicant's academic and professional background and experience
                              in nursing practice, specifying in detail the applicant's capabilities for graduate
                              study and for future practice as an advanced practice nurse. 
                           
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirement (21 credit hours total)
                     
                     
                        
                           
                           NURS 7301 Nursing Administration I (3)
                           
                           NURS 7302 Nursing Administration II (3)
                           
                           NURS 7303 Health Care Finance (3)
                           
                           NURS 7304 Human Resources Management (3)
                           
                           NURS 7305 Quality Management in Nursing & Health Care (3)
                           
                           NURS 7307 Nursing Management Practicum (3) (120 contact hours)
                           
                           NURS 7309 Nursing Administration Practicum (4)
                           
                        
                     
                     
                      C. Retention Retention requirements are the same as for the MSN degree. All requirements for the
                        post master certificate must be completed in 5 calendar year
                     
                     
                     VI. Master of Science in Nursing (M.S.N.) TN eCampus
                     
                     The Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) degree is offered through TN eCampus, a collaborative
                        effort among Colleges and Schools for Nursing in the Tennessee Board of Regents system
                        to educate and fill nursing shortages in the healthcare industry.   This program and
                        courses are delivered following the standard protocol established for the delivery
                        of TN eCampus courses and programs. The program includes three concentrations: Nursing
                        Education, Nursing Administration, and Family Nurse Practitioner. Courses are offered
                        each semester (fall, spring, and summer) through all six Tennessee Board of Regents
                        universities. The program requires completion of 34-46 semester credit hours depending
                        on the concentration. For more information, please visit http://www.org/degree-programs-courses/masters/masters-science-nursing .
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admission Requirements
                     
                     All candidates must apply to TN eCampus and deemed eligible before applying to the
                        home school (University of Memphis). Applicants MUST wait for notification of eligibility
                        and designation of the University of Memphis as the home campus assignment before
                        applying to the Graduate Division and Loewenberg College of Nursing at the University
                        of Memphis.  The TN eCampus application can be found at the TN eCampus homepage ( www.tnecampus.info ).
                     
                     
                     Admission to the program will be based on competitive selection from the pool of applicants
                        who meet the the Graduate Division admission requirements from the designated home
                        school.  Additional admission requirements for the Master of Science in Nursing TN
                        eCampus include:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Admission to the University of Memphis Graduate School
                        
                        Admission to the Loewenberg College of Nursing graduate nursing program.
                        
                        An undergraduate minimum cumulative grade point average of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale.
                        
                        Letter of interest which discusses prior professional experience, future career goals,
                           and reasons for pursuing graduate study.
                        
                        
                        Letters of recommendation from three persons familiar with the applicant's academic
                           and professional background and experience in nursing practice, specifying in detail
                           the applicant's capabilities for graduate study and for future practice as an advanced
                           practice nurse.
                        
                        
                        Interview with LCON graduate faculty if requested by Admissions Committee.
                        
                        Submission of current professional resume
                        
                        Applicants for whom English is not their primary language are required to meet the
                           University's minimum required TOEFL score:  paper based 550; internet based 79; or
                           computer based 213.
                        
                        
                        Eligibility to practice as a Registered Nurse in Tennessee or in an approved state
                           in which the clinical assignments are completed. Appropriate licensure/authorization
                           must be obtained during the first semester following admission to the program.
                        
                        
                        Students transferring from another graduate nursing program must submit a letter of
                           good standing and transcript from the dean/director of the previous nursing program.
                        
                        
                        The standardized admission test is successful completion of the NCLEX licensing examination.
                        
                        Successful completion of a 3 semester hour or 4 quarter hour undergraduate statistics
                           course.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     B. Progression Standards - MSN-TN eCampus
                     
                     
                        
                        Students in graduate nursing programs must meet the same requirements of the University
                           of Memphis Graduate Division and the Loewenberg College of Nursing MSN students. 
                           See “Progression and Retention” above. 
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     C. Degree Requirements
                     
                     Students enrolled in the Nursing Administration specialty must satisfactorily complete
                        36 credit hours of coursework. Students in the Nursing Informatics specialty must
                        complete 38 credit hours.  Students in the Nursing Education specialty must complete
                        40 credit hours and students in the Advanced Practice specialty must complete 46 credit
                        hours. Specific courses are required of students who plan to take a national certification
                        examination. All students are required to pass a written comprehensive examination
                        or satisfactorily complete culminating experience in the final semester of the program.
                     
                     
                     Courses are selected and approved in conjunction with the student’s advisor.
                     
                     D. Concentrations
                     
                     Students enrolled in the Master of Science in Nursing (MSN-TN eCampus) will complete
                        courses as indicated for their selected concentration.
                     
                     1. NURSING ADMINISTRATION CONCENTRATION (36 credit hours)
                     
                     
                        
                        NURS 7000 - Theoretical Foundations of Advanced Nursing Practice (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7001 - Health Care Policy (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7002 - Advanced Nursing Research (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7003 - Advanced Role Development (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7990 - Scholarly Synthesis (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7301 - Nursing Administration I (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7302 - Nursing Administration II (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7303 - Health Care Finance (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7304 - Human Resources Management (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7305 - Quality Management in Nursing and Health Care (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7307 - Nursing Management Practicum (2 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7309 - Nursing Administration Practicum (4 credits) 
                        
                     
                     
                     2. NURSING EDUCATION CONCENTRATION (40 Credit Hours)
                     
                     
                        
                        NURS 7000 - Theoretical Foundations of Advanced Nursing Practice (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7001 - Health Care Policy (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7002 - Advanced Nursing Research (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7003 - Advanced Role Development (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7990 - Scholarly Synthesis (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7101 - Advanced Health Assessment (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7102 - Advanced Health Assessment Clinical (1 credit)
                        
                        NURS 7103 - Advanced Pathophysiology (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7104 - Advanced Clinical Pharmacology (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7204 - Curriculum Design and Educational Theory (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7205 - Evaluation Methods of Nursing Education (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7207 Clinical Focus Practicum (2 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7209 – Nursing Education Practicum (4 credits)
                        
                     
                     
                     Choose one course from the following 3 credit hour courses:
                     
                     
                        
                        NURS 7505 - Advanced Adult Health Nursing (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7515 - Advanced Psychiatric/Mental Health Nursing (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7525 - Advanced Critical Care Nursing (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7545 - Advanced Women's Health and Perinatal Nursing (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7635 - Advanced Pediatric Nursing (3 credits)
                        
                     
                     
                     3. FAMILY NURSE PRACTITIONER CONCENTRATION
                     
                     
                        
                        NURS 7000 - Theoretical Foundations of Advanced Nursing Practice (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7001 - Health Care Policy (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7002 - Advanced Nursing Research (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7003 - Advanced Role Development (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7990 - Scholarly Synthesis (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7101 - Advanced Health Assessment (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7102 - Advanced Health Assessment Clinical (1 credit)
                        
                        NURS 7103 - Advanced Pathophysiology (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7104 - Advanced Clinical Pharmacology (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7601 - Family Nurse Practitioner I (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7602 - Family Nurse Practitioner I Clinical (2 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7603 - Family Nurse Practitioner II (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7604 - Family Nurse Practitioner II – Clinical (4 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7605 - Family Nurse Practitioner III (3 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7606 - Family Nurse Practitioner III – Clinical (2 credits)
                        
                        NURS 7609 - Advanced Practice Residency (4 credits)
                        
                     
                     
                     Click here for course descriptions
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/nurs.php
