http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/phil.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                              	Degree Planning
                              	
                        Philosophy
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Philosophy
                     
                     Stephan Blatti Associate Professor, Interim Chair 127 Clement Hall 901.678.4289
                     
                     
                     MARY BETH MADER, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Admissions TIM ROCHE, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Studies E-mail: philosophy@memphis.edu www.memphis.edu/philosophy
                     
                     
                     
                     I. The Department of Philosophy offers graduate programs leading to the Master of Arts and Doctor of Philosophy degrees
                        with a major in Philosophy. The master’s program is designed to provide comprehensive
                        training in philosophy for students seeking work beyond the bachelor’s level, whether
                        for self-enrichment, background for other areas, or in preparation for doctoral work.
                        The doctoral program provides students with the broad background necessary for effective
                        teaching as well as the specialized research skills required for a career in philosophy
                        at the college or university level.  All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School
                        (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued.
                     
                     
                     II. MA Degree Program
                     
                     Program objectives are: (1) development of expertise in the discipline to teach introductory
                        courses; (2) ability to write a research paper on a philosophical topic for formal
                        presentation; and (3) ability to demonstrate knowledge and skills for advanced study.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admission The Philosophy Department admits students for the fall semester of each academic year.
                        Information and application forms can be found on the department web site. Applications
                        received after January 5 cannot be guaranteed consideration for an assistantship for
                        the upcoming academic year.
                     
                     
                     B. Program Prerequisites
                     
                     
                        
                        A bachelor’s degree from a recognized college or university. Official transcripts
                           should be sent to the Office of Graduate Admissions.
                        
                        
                        A minimum of a 2.5 quality point average on a scale of 4.0. Students with less than
                           a 2.5 quality point average may, on occasion, be admitted.
                        
                        
                        An acceptable score on the general test of the Graduate Record Examination.
                        
                        At least 18 semester hours in undergraduate philosophy courses including the following
                           courses or their equivalent: introduction to philosophy, ethics, elementary logic,
                           history of ancient philosophy, and history of modern philosophy. Students who lack
                           one or more of these courses may be admitted to the program only on the condition
                           that they take the appropriate course as soon as possible.
                        
                        
                        Three letters of recommendation from people qualified to judge the student’s ability
                           to undertake graduate work.
                        
                        
                        A 10-20 page writing sample and a 1-2–page statement of purpose should be submitted
                           to the Coordinator of Graduate Admissions in Philosophy.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     C. Program Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        Thirty to thirty-three hours of class work, 24 of which must be at the 7000 level
                           or above. Students who write a thesis are required to take 30 hours, 3 of which are
                           credit for the thesis. Students who do not write a thesis are required to take 33
                           hours. Students who elect to write a thesis should familiarize themselves with the
                           Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before beginning to write. Students with approved collateral areas may take up to
                           six hours outside the department if they are writing a thesis or nine hours if they
                           are not.
                        
                        
                        A written comprehensive examination covering the primary area of research interest
                           of the student. This examination will incorporate an historical component relevant
                           to the area of research interest.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     III. PhD Degree Program
                     
                     Program objectives are: (1) development of expertise in the subject matter to teach
                        a variety of undergraduate courses in area of specialization; (2) development of ability
                        to produce original research papers of sufficient quality for presentation at professional
                        meetings and conferences and publication in professional journals, in addition to
                        ability to impart research skills to students at all levels; (3) ability to contribute
                        to philosophical discussions across the subdivisions of the field; and (4) preparation
                        to assume the role of a philosophy faculty member.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admission
                     
                     The Philosophy Department admits students for the fall semester of each academic year.
                         Information and application forms can be found on the department web site. Applications
                        received after January 5 cannot be guaranteed consideration for an assistantship for
                        the upcoming academic year.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Fulfillment of university requirements for admission to the Graduate School, including
                           a score on the GRE acceptable to the department.
                        
                        
                        The equivalent of the BA degree, usually with a major in philosophy. This must include
                           at least the following courses or their equivalents: intermediate logic, survey of
                           ancient philosophy, survey of modern philosophy, and ethics. Students lacking one
                           or more of these courses may be admitted to the program provisionally, on the condition
                           that they make up the missing course work as soon as possible (graduate credit will
                           not be granted for make-up work).
                        
                        
                        Three letters of recommendation, to be submitted by persons competent to judge the
                           prospective student’s ability to undertake graduate work. (These letters are to be
                           sent directly from the referee to the department’s coordinator of graduate admissions).
                        
                        
                        Transcripts of prior academic work. Official copies should be sent to the Office of
                           Graduate Admissions. A minimum GPA of 3.00 (on a scale of 4.00) will be expected.
                        
                        
                        A 10-20 page writing sample and a 1-2–page statement of purpose should be submitted
                           to the Coordinator of Graduate Admissions in Philosophy.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     B. Retention Requirements
                     
                     A student will be retained continuously in the program until completion of the degree
                        providing the following conditions are met:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        All students will be required to maintain a GPA of at least 3.5. Should the student’s
                           GPA fall below that mark, a period of one semester will be allowed to correct the
                           deficiency. At the discretion of the chair and the coordinator of graduate studies,
                           this period may be extended one additional semester.
                        
                        
                        Students will be expected to demonstrate satisfactory progress in fulfilling the graduation
                           requirements outlined below.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     C. Graduation Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        General Requirements
                           
                              
                              A minimum of 72 hours of graduate credit beyond the bachelor’s degree is required.
                                 At least 60 hours credit must be at the 7000 level or higher.
                              
                              
                              At most 18 hours of graduate work may be transferred from graduate work elsewhere
                                 and applied towards the 72 hours needed for the PhD. Only graduate hours that were
                                 not used for a previous graduate degree, that relate in content to the graduate program,
                                 and that do not exceed university time restrictions can be transferred.
                              
                              
                              For students who have attained a master’s degree, a minimum of 42 hours of graduate
                                 credit is required beyond that master’s degree. At least 36 hours of graduate credit
                                 must be at the 7000 level or higher. More hours may be required at the discretion
                                 of the department’s advisory committee.
                              
                              
                              No more than 18 credit hours of dissertation (PHIL 9000) will count towards satisfying
                                 the total number of graduate hours required for the PhD. A minimum of 6 hours of dissertation
                                 is required for the PhD.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Residency Requirements: At least 24 credit hours must be earned while the student is in continuous residence
                           in the program.
                        
                        
                        Distribution Requirements
                           
                              
                              Core Requirements—Students must take a core of twelve hours in the history of philosophy
                                 (at least three in ancient and three in modern), six hours in theoretical philosophy,
                                 and six hours in practical philosophy.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Examination Requirements:
                           
                              
                              Comprehensive Examinations—The Comprehensive Examinations must be taken no later than
                                 the student's fourth semester in the program. This examination includes a written
                                 part and an oral part and covers the primary area of the student's research interest
                                 (i.e., the area in which the student intends to write a dissertation).
                              
                              
                              NOTE: It is expected that the doctoral comprehensive examination will be coordinated
                                 with the master's comprehensive examination, so that those whose scores fail to qualify
                                 them for advanced doctoral study but are sufficient for the master's degree may then
                                 complete the requirements for a terminal master's degree.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Research Tool Requirements: Students must demonstrate sufficient ability in either (a) one natural language relevant
                           to the student's dissertation area (or two natural languages if the director of the
                           student's dissertation determines that this additional capability is required for
                           successful research in the student's area of specialization) or (b) one non-natural
                           language or research tool (i.e.,logic) if such a language or tool is determined to
                           be most useful to the student's area of research.
                        
                        
                        Dissertation Requirements
                           
                              
                              Dissertation Committee—The student must select a dissertation director. The coordinator
                                 of graduate studies in consultation with the graduate faculty will select three additional
                                 readers.
                              
                              
                              Dissertation Proposal Defense—The student will submit a proposal for the dissertation
                                 to the committee and defend the proposal before the graduate faculty. This defense
                                 will normally occur before the end of the sixth semester.
                              
                              
                              Dissertation Defense—The dissertation committee will schedule a defense of the completed
                                 dissertation in coordination with the chair and the coordinator of graduate studies.
                                 Notice will be given, copies of the dissertation made available, and a public oral
                                 defense of the dissertation will be held. Upon approval of the dissertation committee
                                 and faculty, the dissertation will be submitted to the Graduate School and the degree
                                 awarded.
                              
                              
                              Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before beginning to write.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Click here for course descriptions
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/phil.php
