http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/phys.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                              	Degree Planning
                              	
                        Physics and Materials Science
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Physics and Materials Science
                     
                     JINGBIAO CUI, PhD Professor and Chair Room 216 Manning Hall 901.678.3657 jcui@memphis.edu   SANJAY MISHRA, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Studies 901.678.3115 srmishra@memphis.edu www.memphis.edu/physics/index.php
                     
                     
                     
                     I. The Department of Physics and Materials Science offers a graduate program leading to a Master of Science degree with a major in physics.
                        Program objectives are: (1) development of an in-depth and specialized knowledge of
                        physical phenomena; (2) ability to successfully demonstrate analytic cognitive knowledge
                        in physics; (3) developing of effective communications skills; and (4) preparation
                        to continue studies in a PhD program, enter a professional school, or enter the workforce
                        as a technical professional. Graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School
                        (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued.
                     
                     
                     II. MS Degree Program
                     
                     A. Program Admission Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        Prospective students, in addition to meeting the requirements for admission to The
                           Graduate School, are required to present as a prerequisite for admission a satisfactory
                           record of undergraduate work in physics. Normally 21 credit hours of physics course
                           work will be required, including classical mechanics, electricity and magnetism, modern
                           physics, quantum physics, and thermal physics, and 12 credit hours of calculus and
                           differential equations. Students who are deficient in undergraduate work may be admitted
                           on a conditional basis and would be allowed to take graduate courses only after fulfilling
                           the undergraduate course deficiencies. Submission of general GRE score is strongly
                           recommended for admission.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        After meeting the general degree requirements for admission to The Graduate School,
                           students selecting Physics as a major will be assigned to the Department Graduate
                           Committee, which must approve and direct their course of study.
                        
                        
                        Core requirements (9 credit hours)*:
                           
                              
                              PHYS 7200/8200, PHYS 7386, and PHYS 7520.
                              
                              Satisfactory completion of an oral comprehensive exam typically given during the final
                                 thesis oral presentation.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Concentration Requirements (Students may elect either a thesis or non-thesis program.)
                           
                           
                              
                              a. General Physics Concentration, thesis option (30 credit hours) (Physics Program core requirement*: 9 credit hours, Concentration requirement: 6 credit
                                 hours, Thesis: 6 credit hours, Additional courses: 9 credit hours)
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 General Physics Concentration requirement: PHYS 7100/8100, PHYS 7300.
                                 
                                 Sufficient additional courses, including 6 semester hours in PHYS 7996, Thesis, to
                                    satisfy a minimum of 30 semester hours (9 semester hours may be in a collateral field
                                    of study with course numbers 6000 or above). These courses must be approved by the
                                    graduate advisor. 21 semester hours must be taken in courses numbered 7000 or above.
                                 
                                 
                                 The student must present a research proposal to the graduate thesis committee at the
                                    end of the first semester of his/her study for the thesis approval.
                                 
                                 
                                 The student must complete a research project, submit a written thesis describing the
                                    research, orally present and defend the thesis before a faculty committee. Students
                                    should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before beginning to write.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              b. General Physics Concentration, non-thesis option (33 credit hours) (Physics Program core requirement*: 9 credit hours, Concentration requirement: 6
                                 credit hours, Additional courses: 18 credit hours)
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 General Physics Concentration requirement (6 credit hours): PHYS 7100/8100 and PHYS
                                    7300.
                                 
                                 
                                 Sufficient additional courses to satisfy a minimum of 33 semester hours, in which
                                    9 may be in a collateral field of study. These courses must be approved by the graduate
                                    advisor. 23 semester hours must be taken in courses numbered 7000 or above.
                                 
                                 
                                 Complete a survey of an area of current research in fundamental or applied physics
                                    and make an oral and written presentation based on this survey before a faculty committee.
                                    The subject of this survey must be approved by the departmental graduate committee
                                    at least one semester prior to graduation.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              c. Computational Physics, thesis program (30 credit hours) (Physics Program core requirement*: 9 credit hours, Concentration requirement: 6 credit
                                 hours, Thesis: 6 credit hours, Additional courses: 9 credit hours)
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 PHYS 7385, MATH 7721
                                 
                                 PHYS 7996 Thesis; must contain a strong computational physics component.  Students
                                    should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before beginning to write.
                                 
                                 
                                 The student must present a research proposal to the graduate thesis committee at the
                                    end of the first semester of his/her study for the thesis approval.
                                 
                                 
                                 Additional courses to be taken from the following list: CHEM 6415, COMP 7721, MATH
                                    6391, MATH 6393, MATH 7321, MATH 7393. These courses must be approved by the graduate
                                    advisor.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              d. Computational Physics, non-thesis program (33 credit hours) (Physics Program requirement*: 9 credit hours, Concentration requirement: 6 credit
                                 hours, Additional courses: 18 credit hours)
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 PHYS 7385, MATH 7721
                                 
                                 Sufficient additional courses numbered 6000 and above, including PHYS 7100/8100 and
                                    PHYS 7300, to satisfy a minimum of 33 semester hours. These courses can be taken in
                                    a collateral field of study. CHEM 6415, COMP 7721, MATH 6391, MATH 6393, MATH 6721,
                                    MATH 7321, MATH 7393.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              e. Materials Science Concentration, thesis program (30 credit hours) (Physics Program requirement*: 9 credit hours, Concentration requirement: 12 credit
                                 hours, Thesis: 6 credit hours, Additional courses: 3 credit hours)
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Materials Science Concentration requirement: PHYS 6610, PHYS 6720, MEC 7361/8361,
                                    PHYS 7390 and PHYS 7996.
                                 
                                 
                                 Sufficient additional courses (in a collateral field of study with course numbers
                                    6000 or above), including 6 semester hours in PHYS 7996, Thesis, to satisfy a minimum
                                    of 30 semester hours. These courses must be approved by the graduate advisor.
                                 
                                 
                                 The student must present a research proposal to the graduate thesis committee at the
                                    end of the first semester of his/her study for the thesis approval.
                                 
                                 
                                 The student must complete a research project, submit a written thesis describing the
                                    research, orally present and defend the thesis before a faculty committee. Students
                                    should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before beginning to write.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              f. Materials Science Concentration, non-thesis program (33 credit hours) (Physics Program requirement*: 9 credit hours, Concentration requirement: 12 credit
                                 hours, Additional courses: 12 credit hours)
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Materials Science Concentration requirement: PHYS 6610, PHYS 6810, MEC 7361/8361,
                                    and PHYS 7390.
                                 
                                 
                                 Sufficient additional courses (12 credit hours in collateral field of study with course
                                    numbers 6000 or above), to satisfy a minimum of 33 semester hours. These courses must
                                    be approved by the graduate advisor.
                                 
                                 
                                 Complete a survey of an area of current research in fundamental or applied materials
                                    physics and make an oral and written presentation based on this survey before a faculty
                                    committee. The subject of this survey must be approved by the departmental graduate
                                    committee at least one semester prior to graduation.
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     III. Dual Degree BS-MS Accelerated Program
                     
                     Highly motivated and talented students may pursue an undergraduate degree (B.S.) in
                        Physics followed by a graduate (M.S.) in Physics in a special five-year program. This
                        option requires serious commitment, careful planning with the student’s advisor, and
                        summer research work leading toward a Master’s thesis. Carefully tailored course of
                        study allow students in this program to complete their B.S. degree while they also
                        begin the coursework towards their M.S. Students interested in pursuing this option
                        should contact both the undergraduate and graduate advisors in the Department of Physics
                        and Materials Science early in their undergraduate career.
                     
                     
                     To apply, students should have a minimum 3.25 grade point average, and must submit
                        two reference letters and a copy of their transcripts to the Chair of the Graduate
                        Committee of the Department.  Exceptions to the minimum GPA will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Each applicant will complete an interview with the graduate coordinator in the Department
                        of Physics and Materials Science.
                     
                     
                     Students must apply to the Graduate School for “combination senior” status, which
                        allows them to take graduate courses in Physics. To continue in the program past the
                        B.S., students must apply for admission into the Graduate School.
                     
                     
                     Up to 9 hours of graduate course work may be applied to both the undergraduate and
                        graduate programs. 
                     
                     
                     Click here for course descriptions
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/phys.php
