http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/swrk.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                              	Degree Planning
                              	
                        Social Work
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Social Work
                     
                     STEVEN SOIFER, PhD Chair Room 230, McCord Hall 901.678.2616
                     
                     SUSAN NEELY-BARNES, PhD MSW Program Coordinator  Room 232, McCord Hall 901.678.3438 www.memphis.edu/socialwork/
                     
                     
                     
                     I. The Department of Social Work offers a program of study leading to the Master of
                        Social Work (MSW) degree. The purpose of the program is to educate students for careers
                        as professional social workers by combining quality evidence-based academic preparation
                        with field practice experience.
                     
                     
                     The mission of the MSW program is to educate advanced professional social workers
                        for practice with at-risk populations. Housed within the School of Urban Affairs and
                        Public Policy, the Department of Social Work is dedicated to (a) educating social
                        workers with knowledge, values, and skills for evidence-based practice with children
                        and families, (b) advancing the knowledge base of the social work profession and (c)
                        providing regional leadership in the development and implementation of policies, programs
                        and services for at-risk populations. The program offers two concentrations: (1) Advanced
                        Practice with Children, Youth, and Families: and (2) Advanced Practice with Adults
                        and Families. Students are required to choose one of the two concentrations. 
                     
                     
                     Students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ), the requirements of the MSW program and must exhibit high integrity and moral character
                        consistent with the standards of ethical practice set forth by the National Association
                        of Social Workers.
                     
                     
                     II. MSW Degree Program
                     
                     A. Program Admission and Prerequisites
                     
                     A faculty committee of no less than three members will determine admission to the
                        Master of Social Work program. Admission will require a majority vote in favor of
                        the candidate from members of the committee. The following is necessary for application:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        A baccalaureate degree from an accredited college or university.
                        
                        Generally a grade point average of at least 3.0 or better (A=4.0) for the final 60
                           semester hours or 90 quarter hours of undergraduate study is necessary for consideration.
                        
                        
                        Submission of GRE test scores or the Praxis – Core Academic Skills for Educators Writing
                           Exam; admission is competitive.
                        
                        
                        Experience in a Social Work related field as a paid employee, volunteer or researcher
                           is desirable.
                        
                        
                        A Professional Goal Statement (see the Department’s website for specific instructions).
                        
                        Provide a professional resume.
                        
                        Provide three professional references. a.) At least one must be from a former faculty member. b.) Two of the three must be from sources familiar with your volunteer, internship,
                           or paid work experience
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Deadline for fall admissions is March 1 st for scholarship/assistantship consideration and April 15 th for regular admission. Applications received after April 15 th may be considered if space is available. There are no spring semester admissions.
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements
                     
                     Students are required to complete a minimum of sixty (60) semester hours; thirty (30)
                        hours are taken in the foundation curriculum and thirty (30) hours are required in
                        the concentration curriculum.
                     
                     
                     Thesis Option
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              30 semester hours of foundation-level graduate coursework (24 semester hours) and
                                 field (6 semester hours), 24 semester hours of concentration-level coursework (18
                                 semester hours) and field (6 semester hours), and a minimum of 6 semester hours of
                                 SWRK 7996 (Thesis).
                              
                              
                              All courses in the 30 semester hours of foundation-level graduate coursework (24 semester
                                 hours) and field (6 semester hours) are required and must be taken with a passing
                                 grade before concentration-level coursework, elective semester hours, independent
                                 study semester hours, or thesis hours may be undertaken.
                              
                              
                              12 hours of concentration-level coursework and 12 hours of concentration-level field
                                 and field seminar are required courses.
                              
                              
                              The 6 semester hours of SWRK 7996 replace 2 electives and must be taken in two consecutive
                                 semesters.
                              
                              
                              A passing score on the capstone Comprehensive Examination. The comprehensive examination
                                 for the Master of Social Work program consists of three components: 1) an evaluation
                                 of the student's ability to meet MSW program competencies in field placement; 2) a
                                 student self-assessment of her/his ability to meet all MSW program competencies; and
                                 3) completion of a social work licensure practice examination with a score of 75 or
                                 higher.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Non-Thesis Option
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              30 semester hours of foundation-level graduate coursework (24 semester hours) and
                                 field (6 semester hours), 18 semester hours of concentration-level coursework (18
                                 semester hours) and field (6 semester hours) and field seminar (6 semester hours).
                              
                              
                              All courses in the 30 semester hours of foundation-level graduate coursework (24 semester
                                 hours) and field (6 semester hours) are required and must be taken with a passing
                                 grade before concentration-level coursework, elective semester hours, or independent
                                 study semester hours may be undertaken.
                              
                              
                              12 hours of concentration-level coursework, 6 hours of concentration-level field and
                                 6 hours of concentration-level field seminar are required courses.
                              
                              
                              6 semester hours of electives or independent study must be taken with the non-thesis
                                 option.
                              
                              
                              A passing score on the capstone Comprehensive Examination. The comprehensive examination
                                 for the Master of Social Work program consists of three components: 1) an evaluation
                                 of the student’s ability to meet MSW program competencies in field placement; 2) a
                                 student self-assessment of her/his ability to meet all MSW program competencies; and
                                 3) completion of a social work licensure practice examination with a score of 75 or
                                 higher.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        The foundation curriculum provides evidence-based knowledge, behaviors and skills
                           for social work practice with individuals, families, groups, organizations and communities.
                           The concentration curriculum allows students to extend the basic knowledge gained
                           in the foundation to a more focused advanced evidence-based practice with families
                           and children or advanced evidence-based practice with adults and families. . Both
                           the foundation and concentration portions of the program emphasize evidence-based
                           practice and critical thinking skills.
                        
                        
                        To accommodate a wide range of student needs, the MSW program of study offers options
                           for full-time (4 semesters of study; 60 credit hours) and extended study (6 to 8 semesters
                           of study; 60 credit hours). Regardless of progression through the program, the educational
                           components of each sequencing option are the same. The concentration curriculum is
                           generally full-time (2 semesters), although students may choose to extend (3 to 5
                           semesters). All MSW students follow the same learning expectations for field education,
                           take the same comprehensive exam at the conclusion of the program, and meet the same
                           requirements for graduation. Courses are offered in the traditional classroom settings,
                           on-line and in a hybrid format (combination of traditional classroom and on-line).
                        
                        
                        Students must follow a structured program of study that includes all of the following
                           foundation courses (30 credit hours) (unless advanced standing): 7001 Skills for Professional Social Work Practice (3) 7002 Foundation Practice with Individuals and Families (3) 7003 Foundation Practice with Groups, Organizations and Communities (3) 7005 Assessment, Diagnosis and Psychopathology (3) 7021 SW Across Lifespan (3) 7022 Foundation Practice with Organizations and Communities (3) 7025 Scientific Methods in Social Work (3) 7030 Social Welfare Policy and Services (3) 7051 Field Placement I (3) 7052 Field Placement II (3)
                        
                        
                        Upon successful completion of at least 8 of the 10 foundation courses students move
                           to the concentration curriculum, which includes 30 credit hours in either the Advanced
                           Practice with Children, Youth, and Families concentration or the Advanced Practice
                           with Adults and Families concentration.
                              
                              Advanced Practice with Children, Youth, and Families 7016 Adv. Individual Child/Youth (3) 7017 Adv. Family Child/Youth (3) 7032 Adv. Community Child/Youth (3) 7026 Program and Policy Evaluation (3) 7053 Field Placement III (3) 7054 Field Placement IV (3) 7055 Integrative Field Seminar I (3) 7056 Integrative Field Seminar II (3) Elective (3) Elective (3)
                              
                              
                              Advanced Practice with Adults and Families 7018 Adv. Individual Adults (3) 7019 Adv. Families Adults (3) 7033 Adv. Community Adults (3) 7026 Evaluative Research (3) 7053 Field Placement III (3) 7054 Field Placement IV (3) 7055 Integrative Field Seminar I (3) 7056 Integrative Field Seminar II (3) Elective (3) Elective (3)
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     C. Retention Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        Students in the MSW program must comply with all retention standards of the Graduate School at the University of Memphis.
                        
                        
                        All students are required to maintain a cumulative GPA of at least 3.00. Should the
                           student’s cumulative GPA fall below that mark, a period of one semester will be allowed
                           to correct the deficiency. At the discretion of the chair, the coordinator of graduate
                           studies in the student’s college, and the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Studies,
                           this period may be extended one additional semester. Students failing to improve their
                           GPA to an acceptable level in that time will be dismissed from the program.
                        
                        
                        No more than 6 hours of "C-," "C" or "C+" will be applied toward meeting degree requirements.
                           No grade of a D+ or lower will count toward the degree.
                        
                        
                        All degree requirements for the Master of Social Work must be completed within 6 years
                           of initial enrollment.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     D. Program Requirements
                     
                     All students seeking the Master of Social Work degree must:
                     
                     
                        
                        Successfully complete all courses required in the program of study
                        
                        Abide by the honor’s statement which includes a commitment to engage in professional
                           conduct appropriate for a Social Worker at all times in accordance with the Code of
                           Ethics of the National Association of Social Workers (NASW).
                        
                        
                        Adhere to all graduate and University requirements as stated in The University of
                           Memphis Graduate Catalog (available from the Graduate School).
                        
                        
                        Satisfactorily pass a written comprehensive examination in the final semester of study.
                        
                     
                     
                     III. Advanced Standing Program
                     
                     The Advanced Standing Program allows outstanding graduates of undergraduate social
                        work programs to complete the MSW in a 37 credit hour accelerated program. Students
                        seeking admission into the Advanced Standing Program must: 1) meet all admissions
                        requirements for the 60 credit hour program; 2) have obtained a BA/BSW degree from
                        an undergraduate program accredited by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE)
                        within five years of making application to the MSW or be a Licensed Baccalaureate
                        Social Worker (LBSW); 3) have an overall undergraduate GPA of 3.0 or higher; 4) have
                        a GPA of 3.3 or higher in their undergraduate social work courses; 5) submit test
                        scores on the Graduate Record Exam (GRE) or Praxis Core Academic Skills for Educators
                        Writing Exam that demonstrate graduate level proficiency in writing.
                     
                     
                     New admissions for Advanced Standing students occur for summer session only. Deadline
                        for application is March 1 st , for scholarship/assistantship consideration and April 15 th for regular admissions.
                     
                     
                     Students in the Advanced Standing Program complete seven credit hours of foundation
                        content and all concentration content. Required coursework is as follows:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        All of the following foundation courses:
                           
                           
                              
                              7005 Assessment, Diagnosis, and Psychopathology (3)
                              
                              7025 Scientific Methods in Social Work (3)
                              
                              7050 Advanced Standing Field (1)
                              
                              Complete a concentration in either Advanced Practice with Children, Youth, and Families
                                 or Advanced Practice with Adults and Families.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     IV. Dual MSW-MPH
                     
                     A program of study leading to both a Master of Social Work (MSW) and a Master of Public
                        Health (MPH) is offered. Students must meet the following requirements.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admission Admission to the dual program will require separate admission to each program. Students
                        are admitted to each program separately and must meet ALL admissions criteria for
                        each degree. Completion of one degree is not contingent upon completion of both.
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements Students may earn up to a maximum of twelve hours of dual credit. The following courses
                        will qualify for both the MSW and the MPH.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        PUBH 7132 may be substituted for SWRK 7026.
                        
                        PUBH 7985 may be substituted for either SWRK 7053 or SWRK 7054.
                        
                        Electives in either of the two programs may be shared.
                        
                     
                     
                     V. Dual MSW-MS
                     
                     A program of study leading to both a Master of Social Work (MSW) and a Master of Science
                        in Instruction and Curriculum Leadership with a concentration in Special Education/Applied
                        Behavior Analysis (MS) is offered. Students must meet the following requirements.
                     
                     
                     A. Program Admission Admission to the dual program will require separate admission to each program. Students
                        are admitted to each program separately and must meet ALL admissions criteria for
                        each degree. Completion of one degree is not contingent upon completion of both.
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements Students may earn up to a maximum of twelve hours of dual credit. The following courses
                        will qualify for both the MSW and the MS.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        EDPR 7521 may be substituted for SWRK 7025.
                        
                        SPED 7519 may be repeated and may be substituted for SWRK 7053 or SWRK 7054.
                        
                        Electives in either of the two programs may be shared.
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Click here for course descriptions
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/18/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/swrk.php
