http://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/news.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Social Work
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Undergraduate
                        Graduate
                        People
                        Research
                        Resources
                        News
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Social Work
                              	
                        Department News
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     The Department of Social Work is accepting abstracts for presentations at the Fifth
                        Annual Social Work Symposium, Social Work: A Bridge to Integrated Wellness.
                     
                     
                     Abstracts for presentations will be accepted from practitioners, students, and scholars
                        at all levels in social work or related disciplines. BA/BSW and MSW students are also
                        invited to submit abstracts for poster presentations. View Call for Presentation Abstracts or View Call of Student Poster Submissions
                     
                      
                     
                     Department Events
                     
                     Works in Progress Symposium (WIPS)
                     
                     BA social work candidate Jacqueline Murray presented her research titled "Transgender
                        Healthcare Disparities" at the Works in Progress Symposium (WIPS) held at the University
                        of Memphis on October 31, 2016. Jacqueline discussed challenges and other inequalities
                        that promote healthcare disparities among transgender individuals, and offered preliminary
                        findings from conducting her research. Her thesis advisor, Dr. Lamont Simmons, said
                        it was an honor to assist Jackie with her research, and stated that "her work is an
                        initial step toward pursuing her goal of earning a Ph.D."
                     
                     
                     Congratulations Jacqueline!
                     
                      
                     
                     The Department of Social Work is pleased to announce that MSW student Andre Hitchcock
                           has received a 2016-17 CSWE Minority Fellowship 
                     
                     
                     
                     This fellowship is funded by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration
                        (SAMSHA). The MFP-Youth Master's Fellowship is given to advanced year social work
                        students who are committed to providing mental health services to at-risk children,
                        adolescents, and young adults in underserved minority communities.
                     
                     
                     The CSWE Minority Fellows Program (MFP) has a long history of mentoring advanced social
                        work professionals at both master's and doctoral levels who are racial/ethnic minorities.
                        The program has made significant strides in increasing the racial/ethnic diversity
                        of the profession of social work. The selection process is highly competitive. So,
                        it a great honor for Andre to have been selected. Andre also has the distinction of
                        being the first University of Memphis student to ever receive this award.
                     
                     
                     Congratulations Andre!
                     
                      
                     
                     Connecting the Dots: Supporting Local Law Enforcement in their Responses to Community
                           Trauma
                     
                     The Defending Childhood Initiative (DCI) provided funding for the Department of Social
                        Work to develop and distribute agency resource manuals for law enforcement officers
                        at the Airways Station in Memphis, TN. The manuals will equip officers with agency
                        information that should be useful in their work in addressing trauma and violence
                        in the communities surrounding the Airways Station. The manuals include resources
                        related to domestic violence, alcohol and drug services, adults and children with
                        disabilities, emergency housing and shelter, and churches. The project's Principal
                        Investigator, Dr. Lamont Simmons, stated that "these manuals will serve as a critical
                        resource for officers to promote the healthy development of children, families, and
                        communities inflicted by trauma and violence." Dr. Simmons attributes collaboration
                        among the Department of Social Work (Christy Peterson, Lamont Simmons, and Graduate
                        Assistants), the Memphis Police Department Airways Station (Officer April Colbert
                        and Colonel Joe Oakley), the Network for Overcoming Violence and Abuse (NOVA), and
                        the University of Tennessee Health Science Center, Boling Center for Developmental
                        Disabilities (Belinda Tate-Hardy, Chief of Social Work) for the project's success.
                     
                     
                                                       
                     
                     Image 1: Airways Station Precinct Commander Colonel Joe Oakley and Dr. Lamont Simmons
                        proudly display their agency resource manuals.
                     
                     
                     Image 2: Dr. Lamont Simmons giving a brief presentation to law enforcement officers
                        on the resource manuals.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Undergraduate Students Visit Area Agencies 
                     
                     Dr. Lennon-Dearing's SWRK 3904 class had a great day learning about the services provided
                        at the Memphis Child Advocacy Center and MIFA (Metropolitan Interfaith Association).
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     2016 Department of Social Work Field Agency Fair 
                     
                     The Department of Social Work will host our annual Field Agency Fair on Friday, March
                        18, from 9am-12pm for social work students and affiliated agencies. The fair will
                        be held on campus, in the Rose Theater Lobby. The Field Agency Fair is a great opportunity
                        for you to meet our MSW and BA students, pre-interview them, gather resumes, and network
                        with local clinicians and agencies. The fair will focus on providing internships for
                        students (both BA and MSW) for the 2016-2017 academic year, and if your agency is
                        hiring new graduates, this will also be an opportunity to recruit new employees. In
                        addition, we have partnered with The West TN Branch of the NASW to celebrate Social
                        Work Month. Activities related to the celebration of Social Work Month will also occur
                        during the Field Agency Fair.
                     
                     
                     If you are able to participate, please register for the Field Agency Fair below. There are no fees associated with participating
                        in the Field Agency Fair. Registering will allow us to make sure we have ample set-up
                        and accommodations for agencies. Registration will be confirmed following the deadline.
                        The deadline for registration is 2/26/16. Contact Laura Taylor with questions. Register here .
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Supervising Clinician Data Form.  If you are a licensed clinical social worker interested in providing clinical licensure
                        supervision to LMSWs, please complete a request form to be added to our Social Work Supervision Directory. Please contact  Laura Taylor , MSW Field Coordinator, with any questions.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Upcoming Trauma Education Trainings offered by The Mid-South Family & community Empowerment
                           Institute and Network for Overcoming Violence and Abuse (NOVA).  Trainings are offered to the community throughout Spring 2016. The first training
                        will be offered Monday, January 11th, 2016, 11:30 am - 1:30 pm , and will feature nationally recognized educator and trainer, Dr. Troy Harden, Chicago
                        State University will explore trauma, race, and healing, and discuss his work with
                        youth and adults. View the flyer for all training dates.
                     
                      
                     
                     UofM Lambuth Campus Social Work students recognized in The Jackson Sun for their holiday
                           donations to the Dream Center, located in Jackson, TN. R ead the article.
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                     Dr. Elena Delavega attends Bank on Memphis event to announce smartphone app to increase
                           access to banking institutions that have been historically unavailable to many Memphis
                           households.
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Fall 2015 LCSW Exam Prep Announcement and Training Schedule .
                     
                     Lambuth Social Work Society: Organization for University of Memphis Lambuth Campus
                           Students The Department of Social Work is happy to announce that through the efforts of our
                        engaged students, the UofM Lambuth Campus is now home to the Lambuth Social Work Society!
                        Social work majors and interested students are welcomed to join. Please visit the
                        Society website or facebook page to get involved.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Media Mentions
                     
                     From the Commercial Appeal, October 13, 2014 Dr. Susan Neely-Barnes , associate professor in the Department of Social Work, and assistant professors Dr. Elena Delavega and Dr. Susan Elswick have been awarded a Health Resources and Services Administration Behavioral Health
                        Workforce Education and Training for Professionals grant. The award is $473,892 during
                        the first year, with a possible $1.4 million over a three-year period. The grant will fund the establishment of the Midsouth Social Work Professional Development Initiative , which plans to train 102 students seeking a masters in social work. Students participating
                        in the program will receive training while providing direct services to children,
                        adolescents or transition-age adults. The grant is part of a White House "Now is the Time" initiative. The goal is to train
                        more behavioral-health professionals with a commitment to serve populations who are
                        at risk or have developed a behavioral health disorder.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Newsletters
                     
                     The Department of Social Work Newsletter is a great way to stay connected with current
                        and pressing social work information to students, staff, faculty, and field instructors.
                        Each month we will keep you updated on particular topics, upcoming events, and areas
                        of interest related to University of Memphis programming and within the field of Social
                        Work.
                     
                     
                     Give us your feedback about the Newsletter, and your ideas for future newsletter publications
                        (jobs, activities your agency is doing, research, awesome things your BA/MSW students
                        are doing in field, etc). The Newsletters will be archived monthly online.
                     
                     
                     Please enjoy our first program report:   The Mid-South Provocateur - Volume 1, Issue 1
                     
                     Spring 2015
                     
                     January 2015
                     
                     February 2015
                     
                     March 2015
                     
                     April 2015
                     
                     FALL 2014
                     
                     September 2014
                     
                     October / November 2014
                     
                     December 2014
                     
                     SUMMER 2014
                     
                     May 2014
                     
                     SPRING 2014
                     
                     January 2014
                     
                     February 2014
                     
                     March 2014
                     
                     April 2014
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Why Study Social Work?
                              The study of social work prepares you for a career in a strong growth area
                           
                           
                              SUAPP
                              The Department of Social Work is a part of the School of Urban Affairs and Public
                                 Policy.
                              
                           
                           
                              Support Social Work Education
                              Your gifts make a difference!
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Main office and location information.
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 11/1/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/news.php
