http://www.memphis.edu/anthropology/news-events/index.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Anthropology
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Undergraduate
                        Graduate
                        People
                        Student Life
                        Resources
                     
                     
                        
                           News and Events
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Current
                                 Past Events
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Department of Anthropology
                              	
                        
                           	News and Events
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     
                     News and Events
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Want to stay up to date on the department? Like our Facebook page !
                                 
                                 
                                 Stay up to date on department events, student achievements, and anthropological information!
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Dr. Keri Brondo receives 2016 AAA's President Award
                                 
                                 Congratulations Dr. Keri Brondo on receiving the 2016 American Anthropological Association's
                                    President Award. Alisse Waterston described Dr. Brondo as "a gracious and powerful
                                    leader, taking on challenges with grace and intelligence and bringing people together
                                    even in the most difficult of circumstances." Dr. Brondo will receive her award at
                                    the annual meeting this November. Congrats!
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Risako Sakai earns CAS Travel Grant 
                                 
                                 Congratulations to second year student Risa Sakai who earned the College of Arts and
                                    Sciences Travel Enrichment Award to attend the Society for Applied Anthropology meeting
                                    in March of 2017. Risa will be presenting on her practicum research on environmental
                                    conservation in the South Pacific.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 New Book by Dr. Keri Brondo
                                 
                                 Cultural Anthropology: Contemporary, Public, and Critical Readings (Oxford University Press, 2016) helps students think anthropologically by introducing
                                    core concepts through engaging case studies. The majority of selections are contemporary
                                    pieces from public, critical, and applied anthropology. These timely readings will
                                    generate discussion among students regarding the value of an anthropological perspective
                                    in the modern world. While the selections represent a range of geographic and cultural
                                    areas, the book includes a high number of U.S.-based fieldwork examples so that students
                                    are inspired to think anthropologically "in their own backyards." Several case studies
                                    offer examples of anthropology in action, and special features throughout the text
                                    profile anthropological application through news stories ("In the News") and interviews
                                    ("Anthropology in Practice").
                                 
                                 
                                  
                                 
                                 New Book by Dr. Chris Barton 
                                 
                                 Historical Racialized Toys in the United States (Routledge, 2016)by Dr. Barton and co-author Kyle Somerville has just been released
                                    for publication. According to the official description, "This book explores the history
                                    of children's toys and games bearing racial stereotypes, and the role these objects
                                    played in the creation and maintenance of structures of racialism and racism in the
                                    United States, from approximately 1865 to the 1930s. This time period is one in which
                                    the creation of structures of childhood and children's socialization into race was
                                    fostered. Additionally, commodities, like toys, were didactic and disciplinary media
                                    in the creation, modification and reproduction of Victorian society."
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Alum Update: Virginia McKay
                                 
                                 Former U of M Applied Anthropology student Virginia (Ginger) McKay has been awarded
                                    her PhD in Health Promotion and Health Behavior from Oregon State University. Her
                                    dissertation focused on HIV prevention strategies and agent-based modeling techniques.
                                    Dr. McKay will soon be moving onto a post doc position at Washington University in
                                    St. Louis, MO. Congratulations!
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Congratulations to Colleen McCartney for winning the Emerging Museum Professional
                                    of the Year award!
                                 
                                 
                                 Colleen McCartney is M.A. Candidate in Anthropology and Interdisciplinary Graduate
                                    Certificate in Museum Studies as well as a Graduate Assistant at the C.H. Nash Museum.
                                    The Emerging Museum Professional of the Year award for the Tennessee Association of
                                    Museums is a new award that "recognizes exceptional promise and potential for emerging
                                    professionals in the museum field" for having "demonstrated excellence and leadership
                                    in museum activities as his/her institution, as well as for the museum profession
                                    as a whole." The award is restricted to individuals working in the field for five
                                    years or less. This new award is a particular honor given Ms. McCartney is still working
                                    towards her degree.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Dr. Keri Vacanti Brondo and her team members on receive a Center for Collaborative
                                    Conservation (CCC) fellowship
                                 
                                 
                                 The Center for Collaborative Conservation at Warner College of Natural Resources at
                                    Colorado State University awarded Dr. Brondo and her research team a fellowship grant
                                    in support of their on-going community-based research in Honduras. Dr. Suzanne Kent
                                    from CSU and Dr. Arlene Hill from the Earth Science Dept. at the U of M are also members
                                    of the team, one of only two teams to receive CCC fellowship funding this cycle.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Ever wonder what anthropology alums do after they graduate? Click here to find out!
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                                 Perspective MA Students! Don't miss out on an excellent fellowship opportunity with
                                    the Memphis Department of Anthropology and ALSAC/St. Jude's Children's Research Hospital !
                                 
                                 
                                 Now accepting application for Spring 2016, the business and design ethnography fellowship
                                    is a great way to receive core training in ethnographic methods and for applying one's
                                    skills in a business environment! 
                                 
                                 
                                 Apply today! Click here to see additional application information. 
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Announcing the ALSAC/St. Jude's Children's Research Hospital Business and Design Ethnography Fellowship
                                 
                                 
                                 We are please to announce a new fellowship program for prospective MA students in
                                    applied anthropology at the University of Memphis seeking to work in customer experience
                                    and business anthropology. The ALSAC/St. Jude fellow will receive full tuition reimbursement
                                    and a stipend. 
                                 
                                 
                                 Please see the flyer for additional information, or email Dr. Keri Brondo . 
                                 
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 The U of M Department of Anthropology is proud to sponsor the 14th annual environmental
                                    justice conference, in partnership with the Sierra Club.
                                 
                                 
                                 Keynote speakers at this year's conference include Minnesota Congressman Keith Ellison
                                    and Sierra Club national President Aaron Mair. Parking and lunch are free, and the
                                    conference is open to all members of the Memphis community. For a full list of workshops
                                    and speakers, and to register, please visit the conference website:
                                 
                                 
                                 https://memphisejconference.wordpress.com/
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Graduate Students Participate in #2015Encuentro hosted by the Student/Farmworker  Alliance                                                                          
                                                                           
                                 
                                 "80 students and young people converge in Immokalee for #2015Encuentro, 15+ actions
                                    in the works for upcoming 'Schooling Wendy's' National Week of Action"
                                 
                                 
                                 Click Here for more information about the events and to check out the beautiful photos     
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 New Publication by Dr. Keri Vacanti Brondo  in the Journal of Sustainable Tourism 
                                 
                                 Titled: The spectacle of saving: conservation voluntourism and the new neoliberal
                                    economy on Utila, Honduras. "Drawing on ethnographic research on Utila, Honduras,
                                    this paper suggests that conservation volunteerism suffers from 'fictitious conservation',
                                    surrounded by 'spectacle'".
                                 
                                 
                                 Click here to view the full abstract
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 The 2015 SEAC Public Outreach Grant was awarded to Dr. Robert P. Connolly
                                 
                                 Of the C.H. Nash Museum at Chucalissa , University of Memphis, Robert Connolly received the award for a tourism-focused
                                    project entitled "Promoting Prehistoric Sites Along the Mississippi River in the Southeast
                                    US."
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Dr. Kathryn Hicks and Dr. Keri Brondo recent contributions to Anthropology and Environment
                                    Society 
                                 
                                 
                                 The  Anthropology and Environment Society's blog, ENGAGEMENT,  recent post is titled   University of Memphis and the Sierra Club Team up to Promote Education, Advocacy &
                                       Activism at Grassroots Environmental Conference  has contributions by Dr. Kathryn Hicks and Dr. Keri Brondo  
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 The dynamic blog Anthropologizing provides interviews with anthropologists outside
                                          of University settings. 
                                 
                                 The blog houses interview transcripts of several University of Memphis Alumni, including Christin
                                    Reeder, Amy Schaftlein, Jesse Smith, Mia Madison, Susanne Salehi, Allison Hennie,
                                    Harmoney Farner and Stacey Burgin.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Recent Past News and Events sponsored by the Department of Anthropology
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master's candidates organize screening and panel discussion of "Beyond Babyland" documentary
                                 
                                 
                                 Master's candidates and Partners in Health | Engage Memphis group members Jenessa
                                    Gebers, Taylor Arnold, Daryl Stephens, Leslie Salama, Caleb Klipowicz, and Alicia
                                    Clark partnered with students from other departments and anthropology faculty members
                                    Dr. Ruthbeth Finerman and Dr. Kathryn Hicks to organize the public event that explores
                                    the high infant mortality rates in Memphis. The panel includes anthropology faculty,
                                    alumni, and local medical professionals involved in maternal and child health. The
                                    event was held on Saturday, March 21st.
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Chucalissa Relic Run 5k 
                                 
                                 
                                 For the 17th consecutive year, the  C.H. Nash Museum at Chucalissa  will host its Relic Run 5K on Saturday, March 7 2015! 
                                 
                                 
                                 Interested in volunteering? Contact Nur Abdalla @  nsbdalla@memphis.edu
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 The Anthropology Club is participating in supporting and organizing the Freedom Tour: Standing together for Higher Wages and Justice for All. 
                                 
                                 Event will take place February 26th, at 6:00pm in UC Ballroom. 
                                 
                                  
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 National Anthropology Day is Thursday, February 19th, 2015!
                                 
                                 
                                 "The American Anthropological Association is celebrating anthropology and anthropologists
                                    across the world through the declaration of National Anthropology Day"
                                 
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Dr. Robert Connolly Co-Publishes article in Interpreting African American History
                                    and Culture
                                 
                                 
                                 The full article is titled Making African American History Relevant Through Co-Creation
                                    and Community Service Learning 
                                 
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Masters Candidate Steve Payne published in Jacobin Magazine
                                 
                                 
                                 Steve's article covers the recent lockout at Kellogg's Tennessee cereal factory and
                                    the workers' response to this tactic.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Dr. Stanley Hyland inducted into the Academy of Community Engagement Scholarship
                                 
                                 
                                 Dr. Hyland was nominated and elected by his peers because of his excellence in collaboration
                                    with communities and the university, while addressing critical issues of mutual benefit.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Dr. Keri Brondo elected to the Executive Board of the American Anthropological Association
                                 
                                 
                                 Dr. Brondo was elected by her peers for this important service role.
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Dr. Kathryn Hicks promoted from Assistant to Associate Professor
                                 
                                 
                                 See her publication in the latest issue of Medical Anthropology Quarterly .
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Taylor Arnold completes internship with the National Farm Medicine Center
                                 
                                 
                                 With Ivanna Pereyra of Salisbury University, he spent eight weeks in Marshfield, Wis.,
                                    working on Seguridad en las Lecherias, testing culturally appropriate occupational safety and health training for immigrant
                                    dairy workers.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Dr. Micah Trapp receives Learn and Serve Grant
                                 
                                 
                                 Dr. Trapp will use the grant to involves students in her Food, Culture and Power course
                                    in research with the Memphis and Shelby County Food Advisory Council.
                                 
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        News and Events
                        
                           
                              
                              Current
                              Past Events
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Undergrads: 
                              Declare Anthropology your major!
                           
                           
                              Join the Graduate Program
                              Learn about applied and engaged anthropology!
                           
                           
                              News and Events
                              Find out what's happening in the Department of Anthropology
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Main office location and numbers, undergraduate and graduate advising
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 11/4/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/anthropology/news-events/index.php
