http://www.memphis.edu/architecture/resources.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Architecture
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Programs
                        Community Engagement
                        Faculty + Staff
                        Alumni
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Department of Architecture
                              	
                        Resources
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Resources
                     
                     Department of Architecture Honor Code
                     
                     The Honor Code of the University of Memphis Department of Architecture states:  "I
                           will not lie, cheat, or steal nor tolerate those who do."
                     
                      
                     
                     Students must also abide fully by the policies, rules, and regulations set forth in
                           the Department of Architecture Student Policies Manual and the applicable documents of the University of Memphis.  Among these are the Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities .  Additional information may be obtained from the University of Memphis Office of Student Conduct .
                     
                     BFA Entrance Evaluation Portfolio
                     
                     All students intending to pursue the Bachelor of Fine Arts degree within the Department
                           of Architecture must complete the Entrance Evaluation. This is in addition to the admission
                           requirements of the University of Memphis.  The Evaluation consists of an application
                           form, a writing element, and a portfolio of representative work.  Submissions are
                           reviewed by faculty and applicants are accepted on the basis of potential in the study
                           of architecture or interior design.  More information is provided at the Department
                           of Architecture New Student Orientation and in the ARCH 1120 Introduction to Architecture
                           + Design course.
                     
                     Transfer students seeking advanced standing should submit a portfolio representing
                           previously completed architecture or interior design studio work as well as detailed professional/technical
                           course information. The review committee will determine if the work is equivalent
                           to comparable courses at the University of Memphis.  Placement in the degree program
                           is dependent upon the review.  Even if admitted with advanced standing, the student
                           may be required to remedy previous course deficiencies.  For more information, please
                           contact the Department of Architecture.
                     
                     BFA Candidacy Review Portfolio (details)
                     
                     A Candidacy Review Portfolio must be submitted after completion of the BFA core with
                           a grade of C or better in all courses. This occurs at the end of the fourth semester
                           of study. Representative work from all architecture and interior design core courses
                           must be included in the Portfolio.  Admission to the University of Memphis and completion
                           of the core courses do not guarantee placement in the BFA degree program.  Admission
                           is selective and is based on an evaluation of the Portfolio and course work reflecting
                           professional standards and expectations of the Department of Architecture.
                     
                      
                     
                     After review, the candidate is notified of one of the following: (1) full acceptance
                           into the BFA degree program, (2) one semester acceptance into the program on a probationary
                           basis, (3) recommendation to correct the deficiencies and reapply, (4) recommendation
                           to pursue general studies courses for a year and reapply, or (5) denial of admission
                           into the Program.  Permission to enroll in any 3000-4000 level course within the Department
                           of Architecture is based upon this review.  Consultation with a faculty advisor is
                           strongly recommended before or during preparation of the Candidacy Review Portfolio.
                     
                     Department of Architecture Studio Culture Policy (details)
                     
                     The Department of Architecture focuses on fostering a studio environment that provides high
                           quality educational experiences while pursuing new knowledge through research, artistic
                           expression, and interdisciplinary and engaged scholarship.  By creating and maintaining
                           an environment that is both positive and respectful, the creative process is much
                           more likely to emerge and succeed.  The Studio Culture Policy was developed by the
                           University of Memphis Chapter of the American Institute of Architecture Students in
                           partnership with the faculty of the Department of Architecture.  It is reviewed and
                           updated periodically.
                     
                     Scholarships (details)
                     
                     Several scholarships are available to architecture and interior design students through
                           the Department of Architecture. These are:
                     
                          Looney Ricks Kiss Architects Endowed Scholarship      Van Walton Memorial Scholarship      Dempsie Morrison, Jr. CSI Memphis Memorial Scholarship      Department of Architecture AIAS Merit Scholarship      American Institute of Architects AIAS Scholarship      James Weaver Memorial Endowed Scholarship in Interior Design      Interior Design Alumni Scholarship
                     
                     In addition, the University of Memphis and the College of Communication and Fine Arts
                           offer academic and other scholarships at various levels in a number of different categories.
                     
                     Awards and Special Recognition
                     
                     The Department of Architecture offers several special awards either through the Department
                           or in partnership with professional and academic organizations.  These are:
                     
                          American Institute of Architects Henry Adams Medal      American Institute of Architects Henry Adams Certificate      Alpha Rho Chi Bronze Medal      Architectural Research Centers Consortium (ARCC) Jonathan King Student Medal      Tau Sigma Delta National Architecture Honor Society Bronze Medal      Department of Architecture Graduate Achievement Award      Department of Architecture Creative Achievement Award (undergraduate)      Department of Architecture Academic Achievement Award (undergraduate)
                     
                     Student Organizations
                     
                     The Department of Architecture is home to four registered student organizations. These
                        are the American Institute of Architecture Students (AIAS), the Construction Specifications Institute Student Affiliate (CSI-S), the International Interior Design Association Campus Center (IIDA-CC), and the National Organization of Minority Architecture Students (NOMAS).  The Department also has a chapter of  Tau Sigma Delta (TSD), the national architecture and design honor society.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     These organizations sponsor various events throughout the academic year including
                        workshops, special lectures, and site visits to architecture and design offices and
                        built and under construction projects. They offer an opportunity to meet other students
                        and practicing professionals through participation in professional, educational, and
                        social activities.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Membership in AIAS, CSI-S, IIDA-CC, and NOMAS is open to any student in architecture,
                        interior design, or a related area of study.  Students may join at any time.  Membership
                        in TSD is based upon academic excellence demonstrated by students who have completed at least
                        five semesters in architecture or interior design.
                     
                     
                     Advising
                     
                     All architecture and interior design students must meet with a Department of Architecture
                           advisor prior to being permitted to enroll in courses offered by the Department. In
                           addition to general advising sessions, students may schedule an appointment to meet
                           individually with an advisor.  Professor Sherry Bryan, winner of the University of
                           Memphis Distinguished Advisor Award for Faculty, serves as advising coordinator for
                           the Department of Architecture.
                     
                     Professional Registration
                     
                     
                        
                        Becoming a Registered Architect Becoming an Interior Designer
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Resources
                              Portfolio Requirements, Policies and Procedures, Scholarships, Awards, Students Organizations,
                                 Advising, Professional Registration
                              
                           
                           
                              News + Events
                              
                           
                           
                              Gallery
                              
                           
                           
                              Accreditation
                              Architecture, Interior Design, Links, Reports
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/23/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/architecture/resources.php
