http://www.memphis.edu/biology/centers/index.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Biological Sciences
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Undergraduate
                        Graduate
                        Centers
                        People
                        Research
                        Events
                        Scholarships
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Biological Sciences
                              	
                        
                           	Centers
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Centers
                     
                     Bioinformatics Program
                     
                     Bioinformatics is an emerging interdisciplinary field which combines mathematical and computer sciences
                        with biology and/or medicine. With the recent advancements in biotechnology, biologists
                        are frequently overloaded with large datasets which need to be stored and analyzed
                        in automated ways.
                     
                     
                     Bioinformatics provides the tools to understand complex biological systems ranging
                        from entire ecological systems, to specific human diseases, to cellular and molecular
                        networks.
                     
                     
                     Visit their website  for more information.
                     
                     
                     Ecological Research Center
                     
                     The Ecological Research Center serves as a research and advisory asset to the regional community. Ensuring ecologically
                        sound planning and development within the urban environment is the most vital goal
                        of the Center. The Center assists in the identification of  ecologically related problems
                        and avenues for resolution.
                     
                     
                     Programs developed by the Center benefits residents of Memphis, the Mid-South, and
                        the global community by assessing issues that explore and improve the quality of life
                        for every individual.  The Center takes a proactive approach to meet community needs
                        while considering the concerns of all stakeholders.
                     
                     
                     Visit their website for more information.
                     
                     
                     Feinstone Center for Genomic Research
                     
                     The purpose of the Feinstone Center for Genomic Research is to foster research and education in the area of genomic research, providing a
                        focal point for these activities within the University of Memphis and the Memphis
                        scientific community. Currently, a major focus of this research is in the area of
                        functional genomics, supporting studies to define the influence of both genetic and
                        environmental factors on gene expression.
                     
                     
                     The goal of this research is to understand the anatomy of the genome and the functions
                        associated with sets of genetic information. New technologies supported by the center
                        are helping scientists to redefine infectious and chronic diseases, aging and responses
                        to environmental pollutants and drugs, in terms of complex integrated pathways. These
                        same technologies are providing rapid advances in the areas of agriculture and bioremediation.
                     
                     
                     Visit their website for more information.
                     
                     
                     The University of Memphis Herbarium
                     
                     The University of Memphis Herbarium is a natural history collection consisting of
                        over 18,000 plant specimens from scientific collections worldwide. Most of the accessions
                        are vascular plants from the Southeastern US, with an emphasis on those of Tennessee
                        and Kentucky. Orphaned for more than 30 years, the herbarium was revived in 2014 and
                        is now accessioning new specimens with high quality data into the collection. All
                        specimen data are published online and continually updated, and are freely available
                        to researchers everywhere.
                     
                     
                     The information generated by the collection is used for a wide variety of research
                        interests including
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Climate change modeling
                        
                        Historical habitat and landscape mapping
                        
                        Tracking the introduction of pathogens and invasive species
                        
                        Phenology studies
                        
                        Production of floras
                        
                        Biogeography and diversification studies
                        
                     
                     
                     The herbarium itself is used to safely store the voucher specimens generated and used
                        in plant research from the various labs on campus, to supply plant material for anatomical
                        and genetic studies, as a tool for plant identification, and as a campus resource
                        for teaching materials.
                     
                     
                     Herbarium staff are conducting their own research on the vascular plants of West Tennessee
                        and the Lower Mississippi River Basin. This area has not been well studied, and the
                        reopening of the herbarium has been a catalyst for the renewed interest of regional
                        botanists, students, and amateur naturalists.
                     
                     
                     International collection code MEM. Visit the Herbarium website .
                     
                     
                     Integrated Microscopy Center
                     
                     The Integrated Microscopy Center (IMC) is a resource facility of the University of Memphis. It provides expertise
                        in the use of microscopy to students, faculty and researchers at the University of
                        Memphis and throughout the immediate area.  The IMC houses light microscopes and electron
                        microscopes and ancillary equipment sample preparation.  The IMC is accredited by
                        the State of Tennessee and Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) to prepare
                        clinical samples for electron microscopy.
                     
                     
                     The IMC includes the new Materials Science Laboratory  now open (located in the Integrated Microscopy Center in the basement of the Life
                        Sciences Building).
                     
                     
                     Featuring an X-ray photoelectron spectrometer (XPS) and a class 1000 clean room equipped
                        with a deposition unit, photo-lithography station, wire bonder and spin coater, the
                        Materials Science Lab is the first of its kind in west Tennessee. With professional staff and equipment
                        enabling research and training for students, postdocs, and researchers in micro-fabrication
                        and surface characterization, this facility significantly enhances the University's
                        capabilities and competitiveness in the targeted growth area of interdisciplinary
                        materials science.
                     
                     
                     Visit their website for more information.
                     
                     
                     Edward J. Meeman Biological Station
                     
                     The Edward J. Meeman Biological Station is the department’s primary field research and teaching venue for ecology, environmental
                        biology, and natural history.  A member of the Organization of Biological Field Stations
                        (OBFS) , the main station property consists of 623 acres of forests, ponds, and meadows that
                        encompass upland areas of the Chickasaw bluffs as well as bottomland habitats near
                        the Mississippi River.
                     
                     
                     This habitat diversity and proximity to the largest river in North America makes Meeman
                        Station an ideal location for research in both terrestrial and aquatic ecology.  Moreover,
                        being only 23 miles from the main campus and having both classroom and dormitory facilities,
                        Meeman is able to provide students with a wealth of hands-on learning experiences
                        in field course offered during regular semesters and summer sessions.
                     
                     
                     Visit their website for more information.
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Biology@Memphis Newsletter
                              Read about graduate and undergraduate student news; awards, grants and scholarships;
                                 publications, and more...
                              
                           
                           
                              Administration
                              Budgets, accounting, facilities management, committees, meetings, and group email
                                 accounts
                              
                           
                           
                              Facilities
                              Not your ordinary classrooms...
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Main office contacts, faculty and staff administration
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/27/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/biology/centers/index.php
