http://www.memphis.edu/cepr/counseling/
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Counseling
                        Counseling Psychology
                        Ed Psych & Research
                        Faculty
                        Research
                     
                     
                        
                           Counseling
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Degree Programs
                                       Counseling-CMH (MS)
                                       Counseling-School (MS)
                                       Counseling-Rehab (MS)
                                       Counseling-Clinical Rehab (MS)
                                       Counseling (EdD)
                                    
                                 
                                 Admissions
                                       MS Application
                                       EdD Application
                                       Certificate in Disability Studies Application
                                       Certificate in Career and College Counseling Application
                                       Financial Assistance
                                    
                                 
                                 Mission Statement
                                 Current Students
                                       Practicum & Internship
                                       Links to Counseling Resources
                                       General Campus Contacts
                                       Student Wellbeing and Evaluation
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	CEPR
                              	
                        
                           	Counseling
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Counseling
                     
                     The Department of Counseling, Educational Psychology and Research offers these programs
                        in the Counseling major. Please select the appropriate concentration in the application system .
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Counseling (MS)
                           
                           
                              
                              Clinical Mental Health
                              
                              Clinical Rehabilitation
                              
                              Rehabilitation Counseling
                              
                              School Counseling
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Counseling (EdD)
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 All programs are fully accredited by nationally recognized accrediting bodies. The
                                       Clinical Mental Health and School Counseling concentrations are accredited by the
                                       Council for the Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs (CACREP).
                                       The Rehabilitation concentrations are accredited by the Council on Rehabilitation
                                       Education (CORE). The MS degree program for Rehabilitation Counseling has also been
                                       ranked #17 in U.S. News and World Report's list of best Rehabilitation Counseling
                                       grad schools.
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     The Counseling programs are designed to prepare individuals for entry level positions
                        in the counseling profession in the following areas of knowledge and skills, and attitudes
                        of sensitivity and caring for diverse populations in the country as a whole. Following
                        the 8 core competencies outlined by CACREP, the program objectives are to prepare
                        counselors who will ethically promote the well- being of individuals, families, mental
                        health organizations and communities located in metropolitan, rural and global settings.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Access our CACREP 2016 Survey . 
                        
                        
                        Guiding Documents
                        
                        Five mission statements provide structure and purpose to the Department of Counseling.
                           First, the Mission Statement of the University provides a framework for focusing on
                           engaged scholarship, learner centered programs, and responsible stewardship. Second,
                           the College of Education specifies the preparation of candidates to serve a diverse
                           community. Third, The Mission Statement of the American Counseling Association (ACA)
                           defines Professional Counseling and identifies the role of the Professional Counselor
                           in various settings. Fourth, the mission statement of the counseling program connects
                           the preceding mission statements to the art and science of educating Professional
                           Counselors. Finally, each counseling concentration has developed a specific mission
                           statement to further develop the precepts outlined by the counseling department mission
                           statement. From these documents, the department faculty members have identified eight
                           over-arching program objectives for student learning outcomes.
                        
                        
                        Counseling Program Mission
                        
                        The University of Memphis Counseling programs are dedicated to:
                        
                        
                           
                           Providing a learner-centered environment for students to engage in experiential learning
                              activities while also fostering the students' development of self-care and self-reflexive
                              practices that will support their continued success as counselors beyond graduate
                              school.
                           
                           
                           Fostering multicultural competence and social justice through increasing self-awareness
                              and respect for human dignity and diversity.
                           
                           
                           Training ethical and competent counselors with a repertoire of skills grounded in
                              evidence-based practice to engage in with the diverse communities in which they live.
                           
                           
                           Assisting emerging counselors in developing a professional counselor identity that
                              values a developmental, strengths-based, wellness approach to helping clients enhance
                              their quality of life.
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Program Objectives
                        
                        
                           
                           Students will develop a professional counselor identity consistent with respective
                              credentialing for specialty area (e.g. licensure, certification) and demonstrate professional
                              and ethical behavior consistent with professional codes of ethics in their interaction
                              with fellow student/colleagues, faculty, and clients that values a developmental,
                              strengths-based, wellness approach to helping clients enhance their quality of life.
                           
                           
                           Students will develop cultural knowledge, self-awareness, skills, and strategies for
                              counseling and advocacy within a diverse community
                           
                           
                           Students will demonstrate an understanding of theory and practice as they relate to
                              diverse developmental experiences across the lifespan and in diverse contexts and
                              settings.
                           
                           
                           Students will describe and apply a variety of career counseling theories, models,
                              assessment, and techniques and how they apply to diverse populations in a global community.
                           
                           
                           Students will demonstrate an ability to create an environment conducive to developing
                              counseling relationships consistent with client goals and evidence based skills in
                              assessment, counseling, case conceptualization, treatment planning, and documentation.
                           
                           
                           The students will understand principles of group dynamics, including group processing
                              components, developmental stage theories, group members' roles and behaviors, and
                              therapeutic factors of group work that include group leadership or facilitation styles
                              and approaches and characteristics of various types of groups.
                           
                           
                           The students will demonstrate ethically and culturally competent test and non-test
                              assessment selection, administration, scoring, and interpretation skills related to
                              academic/educational, career, personal, and social development, including risk assessment
                              in a variety of settings.
                           
                           
                           The students will demonstrate the ability to identify, critically evaluate, and apply
                              quantitative, qualitative, and mixed methods research to inform and evaluate counseling
                              practice.
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Application Process
                        
                        Applicants are selected during the fall and spring semesters based on their undergraduate
                           record, graduate record (where applicable), Graduate Record Examination results, personal
                           interview conducted by program faculty, a completed goal statement, letters of recommendation
                           that address the applicant's suitability for the counseling profession, ethics, and
                           demonstration of diversity related endeavors.
                        
                        
                        For application instructions, please visit the Admissions Page .
                        
                        
                        Scholarship Opportunity
                        
                        The graduate Rehabilitation Counseling Program at The University of Memphis has been
                           awarded a grant from The Rehabilitation Services Administration intended to fund the
                           tuition, fees and stipends for master’s students each year of the next five years.
                           The intent of the grant is to increase the number of rehabilitation counselors prepared
                           to work in vocational rehabilitation settings. Rehabilitation counselors are counselors
                           with a specialty in working with individuals that have a disability and their families.
                        
                        
                        Students interested in this scholarship opportunity should complete the RSA Scholarship application .  If you have any questions please contact Dr. Steve Zanskas at  szanskas@memphis.edu for additional information.  
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Counseling
                        
                           
                              
                              Degree Programs
                                    Counseling-CMH (MS)
                                    Counseling-School (MS)
                                    Counseling-Rehab (MS)
                                    Counseling-Clinical Rehab (MS)
                                    Counseling (EdD)
                                 
                              
                              Admissions
                                    MS Application
                                    EdD Application
                                    Certificate in Disability Studies Application
                                    Certificate in Career and College Counseling Application
                                    Financial Assistance
                                 
                              
                              Mission Statement
                              Current Students
                                    Practicum & Internship
                                    Links to Counseling Resources
                                    General Campus Contacts
                                    Student Wellbeing and Evaluation
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              About the Department
                              
                           
                           
                              Student Organizations in CEPR
                              
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/13/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/cepr/counseling/
