http://www.memphis.edu/coe/scholarships/
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			College of Education
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Departments
                        Degrees
                        Scholarships
                        Research
                        Alumni
                        Faculty
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	COE
                              	
                        
                           	Scholarships
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     COE Scholarships
                     
                     Unless otherwise noted, College of Education Scholarships are awarded at the end of
                        the spring semester for the following academic year. Students must be fully admitted
                        to a program in the College of Education at the time of application.
                     
                     
                     **NEW** To apply, log in to your MyMemphis account and click on the "Account$" tab.  The Tiger Scholarship Manager is in the Scholarship Office channel.  Please upload a one to two-page essay indicating
                        how you meet the qualifications for the particular scholarship or explain what effect
                        this scholarship will have on your future plans.  You may upload your essay by clicking
                        on any "Add a New File" link or in any text box on the general application.  
                     
                     
                     Thanks to the generous support of alumni and friends, the College of Education was
                        able to provide more than $50,000 in scholarship awards for the 2012-2013 academic
                        year to undergraduate and graduate students from various departments and program in
                        the college. Each award is distributed based on criteria established by the donor,
                        but most scholarships require the completion of a standard application packet that
                        includes a general application and a brief essay.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Alpha Delta Kappa, Alpha Chapter/Mary A. Suggs Memorial Scholarship Individual Award Amount: $1,000 Number of Annual Awards: 1 Minimum Eligibility: Undergraduate, Female, Tennessee Resident, Junior or Senior in
                           College of Education with desire to teach
                     
                     The scholarship was first established in 1976 by the Alpha Chapter of Alpha Delta
                        Kappa, an international honorary organization of women educators, to honor the memory
                        of Shelby County educator Mary A. Suggs. It is awarded each year to a female student
                        who is a junior or senior majoring in Education with a desire to teach. In addition,
                        the recipient of this scholarship must be a resident of Tennessee, enrolled full-time
                        and have at least a 3.0 cumulative GPA. Financial need will be considered along with
                        other requirements.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      Ernest C. Ball Scholarship Individual Award Amount: $500 - $1000 Number of Annual Awards: Varies Minimum Eligibility: Undergraduate or Graduate, Concentration in Early Childhood Education
                     
                     In consideration of his desire to assist students pursuing a career in the area of
                        Early Childhood Education, Mr. Ernest C. Ball established this scholarship in 1984.
                        Ball, a 1919 graduate of what was then known as the West Tennessee Normal School,
                        went on to be Superintendent of Memphis City Schools for 21 years. To be eligible
                        for the award, a student must be seeking an undergraduate or graduate degree with
                        a concentration in Early Childhood Education. Preference will be based upon academic
                        ability and financial need.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      Sam Boswell Leadership Award Individual Award Amount: $500 Number of Annual Awards: 1 Minimum Eligibility: Undergraduate, Full-time Sophomore, Junior or Senior in the College
                           of Education
                     
                     Family and friends established this scholarship to honor the memory of Samuel T. Boswell
                        (BBA '75, MS '78) and to support the programs of the College of Education at the University
                        of Memphis. Recipients of this award will be enrolled full-time as a sophomore, junior
                        or senior in a program leading to an undergraduate degree within the College of Education,
                        will have a cumulative GPA of at least 2.75, and be in good academic standing. This
                        student will have demonstrated leadership qualities and community involvement. Financial
                        need may be considered but is not a requirement.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      Cox Family Memorial Scholarship Fund Individual Award Amount: Varies Number of Annual Awards: Varies Minimum Eligibility: Undergraduate, Full-time Junior or Senior in the College of Education
                           3.25 GPA
                     
                     
                     
                      Ellen Davies-Rodgers Educational Endowment Scholarship Individual Award Amount: $500 - $4,000 Number of Annual Awards: Varies Minimum Eligibility: Undergraduate or Graduate, Concentration in Early Childhood Education
                     
                     As one of her many contributions to education, Ms. Ellen Davies-Rodgers, a 1923 graduate
                        of the West Tennessee Normal School, began a scholarship fund to provide financial
                        assistance to deserving students who wish to work in the area of Early Childhood Education.
                        Recipients of this award will be pursuing a degree in an undergraduate or graduate
                        program within the College of Education with a concentration in Early Childhood Education
                        and have a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      Dockery - Faros Scholarship Individual Award Amount: $500-$2100 Number of Annual Awards: Varies Minimum Eligibility: Undergraduate or Graduate, Concentration in Physical Education
                     
                     The Memphis Junior Chamber of Commerce established this scholarship to memorialize
                        Rex Dockery and Chris Faros and to assist deserving students in the area of Physical
                        Education. Recipients will be a junior or senior undergraduate student or a graduate
                        student seeking a degree with a concentration in Physical Education. They must have
                        a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.5 and show demonstrated leadership abilities.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      Sara P. Eaton Scholarship Individual Award Amount:Up to $1,000 Number of Annual Awards: Varies Minimum Eligibility: Undergraduate or Graduate, Concentration in Elementary Education
                     
                     The Sara P. Eaton scholarship serves to honor her memory and provide funding for Arkansas
                        students pursuing a degree with a concentration in Elementary Education at the College
                        of Education at the University of Memphis. Recipients of this scholarship will be
                        from either Crittenden or St. Francis County in Arkansas.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      George W. Etheridge Education Alumni Individual Award Amount: $1,000 - $2,200 Number of Annual Awards: Varies Minimum Eligibility: Pursing an Undergraduate or Graduate degree from the College
                           of Education
                     
                     The University of Memphis, College of Education Alumni Chapter established this scholarship
                        in honor of Dr. George W. Etheridge. This award is available to full-time students,
                        both graduate and undergraduate, who have at least a 3.0 cumulative GPA. Recipients
                        will have demonstrated service and leadership to the department, college, university
                        and professional community. Financial need will be considered as part of the selection
                        process.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      George W. Etheridge Early Childhood Education Memorial Individual Award Amount: $1,000 - $1,600 Number of Annual Awards:Varies Minimum Eligibility:Undergraduate or Graduate, Concentration in Early Childhood
                     
                     To honor the memory of an 'outstanding professor and educator' a scholarship was established
                        for students in Early Childhood Education by Ira A. and Barbara K. Lipman. Recipients
                        of this scholarship will be pursuing a degree within the College of Education with
                        a concentration in Early Childhood Education.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      Dr. Burl E. Gilliland Memorial Scholarship Individual Award Amount: $1,000 - $2,700 Number of Annual Awards: Varies Minimum Eligibility: Graduate, Enrolled in Counseling Psychology
                     
                     Dr. Burl E. Gilliland was a respected, accomplished scholar who was instrumental in
                        the development of the PhD in Counseling Psychology program in the College of Education.
                        In his memory, annual awards are made to full-time graduate students pursuing a degree
                        in Counseling Psychology within the College of Education at the University of Memphis.
                        Preference will be given to students who demonstrate a need for financial assistance.
                        Learn More .
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      Dr. Bobby G. Greer Graduate Fellowship in Rehabilitation Counseling Individual Award Amount: Varies Number of Annual Awards: Varies Minimum Eligibility: Graduate, Full-Time, 3.25 GPA
                     
                     
                     
                      George T. and Betty Johnson Graduate Scholarship Individual Award Amount: $2,500 Number of Annual Awards: 2 Minimum Eligibility: Graduate student enrolled in any graduate program in the College
                           of Education, overall combined GPA of 3.5
                     
                     This scholarship was established by George T. Johnson in consideration of his desire
                        to support deserving graduate students in the College of Education at the University
                        of Memphis. Special consideration will be given to applicants who are returning to
                        pursue a master's degree after significant work experience.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      Kiwanis Club of East Memphis Memorial Scholarship Individual Award Amount: $1,000 - $2,200 Number of Annual Awards: Varies Minimum Eligibility: Undergraduate or Graduate, Concentration in Special Education
                     
                     To honor its former members, the Kiwanis Club of East Memphis established a living
                        memorial known as the Kiwanis Club of East Memphis Memorial Scholarship. Recipients
                        of this scholarship shall be residents of Shelby County and undergraduate or graduate
                        students enrolled a degree program with a concentration in Special Education and have
                        a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.50.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      Eunice B. Ordman Scholarship Individual Award Amount: Up to $3,000 per semester Number of Annual Awards: Varies Minimum Eligibility :Graduate or Undergraduate student, pursing licensure in Early
                           Childhood or Elementary Education, Teaching All Learners, or Physical Education Teacher
                           Education; special consideration will be given to candidates from groups that are
                           underrepresented in k-6 classrooms
                     
                     The vision of the Ordman Fund is to increase diversity among early childhood and elementary
                        school teachers. Since teachers serve as role models, all students benefit from having
                        a diverse group of people entering the profession. Applicants must be admitted to
                        the Teacher Education Program in the College of Education at the University of Memphis
                        and have declared a concentration in early childhood, elementary education, teaching
                        all learners or physical education teacher education. Special consideration will be
                        given to candidates from groups that are underrepresented as teachers in K-6 classrooms
                        (e.g. in terms of gender, race, or ethnicity).
                     
                     
                     Learn more about eligibility and application criteria for the Ordman Scholarship.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      The Harold W. Perry Scholarship Individual Award Amount: $1,000 - $2,500 Number of Annual Awards: 2 Minimum Eligibility:Undergraduate or Graduate, Concentration in Special Education
                     
                     The Harold W. Perry Scholarship was established by the Cerebral Palsy Council for
                        West Tennessee. Recipients of the scholarship will be an undergraduate or graduate
                        student enrolled in a degree program with a concentration in Special Education and
                        have a minimum GPA of 2.50. Preference will be given to students who desire to work
                        with individuals with multiple disabilities including at least one handicap of a physical
                        impairment.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      Raines Family Scholarship Individual Award Amount: $1,000 - $2,000 Number of Annual Awards: Varies Minimum Eligibility: Must be pursing an Undergraduate or Graduate degree in the area
                           of Early Childhood Education from the College of Education. Must be admitted to the
                           Teacher Education Program (TEP).   Undergraduate GPA 3.0 - Graduate GPA 3.25.
                     
                     The Raines Family Scholarship was established to honor the memory of Evelyn “Irene”
                           and James Athel Raines, parents of University of Memphis President, Dr. Shirley C.
                           Raines.   This scholarship recognizes their life-long support of education and their commitment
                           to helping others, both professionally and as caring community members. 
                     
                     
                     
                      Mildred A. Reeves Scholarship for Clinical Nutrition Individual Award Amount: $1,000 - $2,700 Number of Annual Awards:Up to 3 Minimum Eligibility:Graduate, Enrolled in Graduate Program in Clinical Nutrition
                     
                     Mildred A. Reeves established a scholarship for Clinical Nutrition out of a desire
                        to support deserving students at the University of Memphis. Awards will be made to
                        students enrolled full time in the Clinical Nutrition graduate program in the College
                        of Education and have a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.25.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      Elma Roane Scholarship Individual Award Amount:$2,000 - $4,000 Number of Annual Award: Varies Minimum Eligibility: Undergraduate or Graduate Female, Enrolled in Physical Education
                           Program
                     
                     Friends and colleagues made this scholarship available to honor Ms. Elma Roane for
                        her accomplishments and contributions to the University of Memphis women's athletics
                        and to award scholarships to students pursuing a career in health, physical education,
                        recreation and allied fields. To qualify for this award, recipients must be female,
                        a U.S. citizen, enrolled full time as a junior or senior undergraduate or graduate
                        students. Undergraduate applicants must have a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.75 and
                        graduate applicants a minimum of 3.25. Preference may be given to student athletes
                        participating in women's varsity or club sports or majoring in physical education.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      Elizabeth & Harold Robinson Scholarship Individual Award Amount:Varies Number of Annual Award: Varies Minimum Eligibility: Undergraduate or Graduate, Full-Time, 3.0 GPA
                     
                     
                     
                     Dr. Mary Ann Smith Scholarship Individual Award Amount: $700 Number of Annual Awards: 1 Minimum Eligibility: Enrolled in final semester of the Master of Science in Clinical
                           Nutrition and Dietetic Internship/Residency in the College of Education. Minimum cumulative
                           GPA of 3.25 .
                     
                     
                     A dedicated educator and respected member of the field of nutrition, Dr. Mary Ann
                        Smith founded our master’s degree program in Clinical Nutrition with a Dietetic Internship
                        and Residency. The Dr. Mary Ann Smith Scholarship in Clinical Nutrition was established
                        by her family and friends to honor her legacy. Eligible students are enrolled in their
                        final semester of the Master of Science in Clinical Nutrition and Dietetic Internship/Residency
                        in the College of Education with an interest in pediatric nutrition. Minimum cumulative
                        GPA of 3.25.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      Turetzky Family Student Teaching Scholarship Individual Award Amount: $1,000 Number of Annual Awards: 2 Minimum Eligibility: Undergraduate or Graduate, Student Teacher
                     
                     To support the Office of Clinical Student Teaching and its students, Dr. Joel A. Turetzky
                        (MA '64) and Mariette K. Turetzky (MA '65) established a scholarship that is made
                        available during the fall and spring semesters of each year. In order to be eligible
                        for this award, a student must be a U.S. citizen, enrolled as an undergraduate or
                        graduate and must be doing their clinical student teaching. A minimum GPA of 3.25
                        for undergraduate applicants and 3.50 for graduate students is required professional
                        education courses.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      Becky and Martin Zummach Book Scholarship Individual Award Amount:$500 Number of Annual Award: 1 Minimum Eligibility: Graduate
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply to our Undergraduate Programs
                              Undergraduate Spring Deadline: December 1, 2016 (domestic); September 1, 2016 (international)
                           
                           
                              Apply to our Masters and Doctoral Programs
                              Earn your Masters Degree from any of our three departments or take your education
                                 to the next level with a doctorate degree.
                              
                           
                           
                              COE Online
                              Earn a degree on YOUR time.
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                               Have questions?  Call or email today!
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/29/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/coe/scholarships/
