http://www.memphis.edu/english/news_and_events/news.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of English
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Undergraduate
                        Graduate
                        People
                        Community
                        News/Events
                     
                     
                        
                           News and Events
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Recent Faculty Articles, Essays, Poems, and Short Stories
                                 What's Happening?
                                 Naseeb Shaheen Memorial Lecture Series
                                 River City Writers' Series
                                 The Pinch
                                 Newsletter
                                 Student Recognition
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Department of English
                              	
                        
                              	News and Events
                              	
                        What's Happening in the Department of English?
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     What's Happening in the Department of English?
                     
                     Get the most up-to-date information on english department events through our facebook page .
                     
                     Fall 2016 Events
                     
                     Naseeb Shaheen Memorial Symposium and Lecture Series
                     
                     The Naseeb Shaheen Memorial Lecture Committee and the University of Memphis Department
                        of English are pleased to present a symposium on the topic of "Reading Resistance,"
                        to be held on October 14, 2016. Our conversation anticipates the themes of the Shaheen
                        Lecture, to be given this year on October 20th by Prof. William J. Maxwell of Washington
                        University in St. Louis. The symposium will feature readings by graduate students,
                        professors, and instructors.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     The U of M English Department is pleased to welcome Prof. William J. Maxwell of Washington
                        University in St. Louis, who will deliver the Seventh Annual Naseeb Shaheen Memorial Lecture on October 20, 2016. Prof. Maxwell's talk is entitled: "Born-Again, Seen-Again James Baldwin: State Surveillance,
                        Afro-Pessimism, and the Literary History of Black Lives Matter." Prof. Maxwell's lecture
                        will be held on October 20th, 2016, at 6:00pm in the University Center River Room
                        (UC 300), and will be preceded by a reception at 5:30pm. Learn more about the Shaheen Lecture Series and Symposium.
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                     River City Writers Series 
                     
                     Thanks to generous funding and support from SEA, the English Department, and the Lambuth
                        Foundation, River City Writers Series at the University of Memphis will welcome poet
                        David Kirby for two readings. The readings are free and open to the public.
                     
                     
                        
                        The first reading will take place at Lambuth campus on Thursday, October 20th at 6PM in Wisdom Parlor.
                        
                        
                        The second reading will take place at main campus on Friday, October 21st at 5:30PM in UC Beale . 
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     David Kirby's collection The House on Boulevard St.: New and Selected Poems was a finalist for the National Book Award in 2007. Kirby is the author of Little Richard: The Birth of Rock 'n' Roll , which the Times Literary Supplement of London called "a hymn of praise to the emancipatory power of nonsense." Kirby's
                        honors include fellowships from the National Endowment of the Arts and the Guggenheim
                        Foundation. His latest poetry collection is Get Up, Please .
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                               
                              
                              
                              
                               
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Students learn about all the English Department has to offer at the English Undergraduate
                        Orientation in September.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                               
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Dale Williams and her set-up crew pose by the display. (Photo by Curt Hart)
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Dale Williams accepts the Third Place Award for Best Display. (Photo by Curt Hart)
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                               
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     the Department of English won third place at Discover Your Major Day for its carnival-themed
                        booth! Congratulations to Dale Williams and thanks to all our volunteers.
                     
                     
                     See more of the fun we had here!
                           
                     
                     Spring 2016 events
                     
                     Read about the Harry Potter Honors study abroad trip led by Cathy Dice and Tammy Jones
                           in Spring 2016. 
                     
                     Women In Words
                     
                     
                     
                     As part of Women's History Month in March, the English department sponsored Women
                        in Words, a reading, panel discussion, and reception showcasing the writings of women
                        from the English Department. CW Faculty member Sonja Livingston read from her book,
                        Ladies Night in Dreamland , and flash readings were presented by students Breanne Hager, Deven Lyle, Nikki McQuire,
                        Kat Moore, and Amanda Muir. A panel discussion on publishing featured Sonja Livingston,
                        Brandy Wilson, and Kat Moore. The event was moderated by Ashley Roach.
                     
                     
                       River City Writers' Series 2016
                     
                     
                     On Wednesday, February 17th, the River City Writers' Series welcomed author Nickole
                           Brown for a reading and craft talk. Brown's works include Fanny Says, an "unleashed
                           love song" to her late grandmother; her debut, Sister, a novel in poems; and Air Fare,
                           which she co-edited with Judith Taylor. Brown has received grants from the National
                           Endowment for the Arts, the Kentucky Foundation for Women and the Kentucky Arts Council.
                           She is an assistant professor at the University of Arkansas at Little Rock.
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                   Nickole Brown poses with her book Fanny Says.
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                                 Nickole Brown poses with her book Fanny Says.
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                                Creative Writing students speak with Nickole Brown after her interview.
                              
                              
                               
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                                 MFA students before Nickole Brown's talk.
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     WordSmith Writing Olympics
                     
                     
                     On February 29th, UofM instructors Cathy Dice and Tammy Jones held the annual WordSmith
                        Writing Olympics, a writing competition for Memphis-area middle and high-schoolers.
                        Learn more about WordSmith and view the 2016 winners list .
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Local students participating in the WordSmith Writing Olympics.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                              
                                 
                                 WordSmith gives young students an opportunity to get to know the UofM.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              Students receive awards for short dashes at the event, but the 400-word main event
                                 is judged by English faculty members in the following week.
                              
                              
                               
                              
                              This year's WordSmith competition included a children's book-drive to benefit  Porter-Leath , which helps promote literacy and health for underprivileged families in the Memphis
                                 community.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Humanities Brown Bag Series
                     
                     
                     On March 2nd, Dr. Darryl Domingo presented "Advertising, Amusement, and the Arts of
                        Persuasion in Eighteenth-Century London Newspapers" as part of Marcus W. Orr Center
                        for Humanities Brown Bag series, which allows faculty to present and get feedback
                        on current research.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                     Fall 2015 Events
                     
                     Guest Readings
                     
                     The English Department hosted Dr. Alexis De Veaux, who gave a talk and a reading from
                        her novel Yabo on September 29th.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Dr. De Veaux engages students and faculty during her talk.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Dr. Shelby Crosby poses with Dr. De Veaux, her mentor.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Discover Your Major Day 2015                              
                     
                     Dale Williams created a mesmerizing display for Discover your Major Day on October
                        1st!
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 The English Department won "Honorable Mention" for their fortune teller themed display.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Lauren Walker, assistant to Undergraduate Studies, and Dale Williams, Undergraduate Advisor, along with many student and instructor volunteers showed students why English should be in their future.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     2015-2016 Awards
                     
                     
                     Congratulations to our winners of the  Marcus W. Orr Center for the Humanities Fellowship Award Winners for Spring 2016:
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Donal Harris, Assistant Professor, Department of English (Faculty Fellowship)
                                 
                                 
                                 Trenton Hagar, PhD student, Department of English (Dissertation Fellowship)
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                         
                        
                         
                        
                        
                        
                         
                        
                        Congratulations to Tammy Jones, winner of the College of Arts and Sciences Dean's Teaching Award !
                        
                        
                         
                        
                         
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                        
                         
                        
                         
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        News and Events
                        
                           
                              
                              Recent Faculty Articles, Essays, Poems, and Short Stories
                              What's Happening?
                              Naseeb Shaheen Memorial Lecture Series
                              River City Writers' Series
                              The Pinch
                              Newsletter
                              Student Recognition
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply Now
                              
                           
                           
                              Alumni and Friends
                              
                           
                           
                              Course Offerings
                              
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 11/8/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/english/news_and_events/news.php
