http://www.memphis.edu/executivemba/curriculum/index.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Fogelman College - Executive MBA
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Welcome
                        Curriculum
                        Admissions
                        Students
                        FAQs
                        News & Updates
                        FCBE
                     
                     
                        
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Curriculum
                                 Admissions
                                       How To Apply
                                       Information Sessions
                                    
                                 
                                 Students
                                       Program Format
                                       Faculty
                                       Student Profile
                                       Tuition & Fees
                                       EMA Degree Learning Outcomes
                                    
                                 
                                 News & Updates
                                 FAQs
                                 Contact Us
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Executive MBA
                              	
                        
                           	Curriculum
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Curriculum
                     
                     The Curriculum for the Fall-to-Fall, 41-credit hour Fogelman Executive MBA program
                        is structured to provide executives with a dynamic blend of knowledge, skills, and
                        tools to help them perform in a globally competitive environment. While the program
                        provides rigorous training in all of the functional areas of business, it also stretches
                        students' intellectual and emotional development as executives with wide-ranging,
                        innovative courses.  Working in a collaborative, team-oriented environment, students'
                        learning is further enhanced by drawing on the business expertise of their colleagues
                        to solve difficult, real-world business problems.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Seminar in Leadership
                        
                        Financial and Managerial Accounting for Managers
                        
                        Economics for Global Executive
                        
                        Information Systems in the Global Enterprise
                        
                        Global Financial Management
                        
                        Global Operations Management
                        
                        Quantitative Tools for Managers
                        
                        Practicum in International Busines s
                        
                        Creativity and Innovation
                        
                        Self Leadership for Executives
                        
                        Strategic Human Resource Management
                        
                        Global Strategic Marketing
                        
                        Corporate Governance and Business Ethics
                        
                        Change Management
                        
                        Global Strategic Management
                        
                     
                     
                     Domestic Residential Week
                     
                     Seminar in Leadership Theoretical and practical consideration of leadership in high performing business
                        organizations; detailed analysis of relevant organizational behavior concepts; particular
                        focus on theories of motivation, styles of leadership and emotional intelligence.
                     
                     
                     Change Management Intense, specialized short-course in leading and managing people through change. 
                        Students individually prepare significant change projects for their organizations
                        and explore techniques to help manage their people and themselves through the consequences
                        of change.
                     
                     
                     Fall Session
                     
                     Financial and Managerial Accounting for Managers Use of accounting information by an organization’s investors, creditors, regulatory
                        authorities and managers; develop financial and credit analysis skills that are useful
                        in business decision making. Analysis of accounting information that can be used by
                        management to monitor the efficiency, quality, and timeliness of its operations; pricing
                        and costing of products and services, planning, and performance measurement.
                     
                     
                     Global Operations Management A comprehensive course that addresses the acquisition, transformation and distribution
                        of goods and services within the global supply chain.  The course will present concepts,
                        tools and strategies used to design and manage operations.  Topics covered in the
                        course include, but are not limited to: strategic implications, performance measurement,
                        process management, sourcing, operations design, quality, inventory, logistics, enabling
                        information systems and technology, and global issues.
                     
                     
                      Economics for the Global Executive Concepts and tools of economic theory and their application to business and social
                        issues in the context of a global economy; the decisions of firms, consumers and governments
                        and how their interactions determine market outcomes; market structures, the impact
                        of international trade and currency markets on firms that compete in a global economy.
                     
                     
                     Top of Page
                     
                     Spring Session
                     
                     Global Financial Management Theory and practice of modern financial theory as it is currently practiced in an
                        interdependent global economy by corporate financial managers, financial consultants
                        and managers of financial institutions.
                     
                     
                      Quantitative Tools for Managers Statistical concepts and tools, optimization and simulation techniques useful in understanding,
                        assessing, and controlling operations of business and economic society.
                     
                     
                     Global Strategic Marketing Marketing strategy and in-depth analysis of issues impacting global management of
                        marketing, including: interrelationships among global business environments and strategies,
                        analysis value creating global strategies, competitive intelligence gathering, customer
                        segment analysis, integrated marketing technologies, customer relationship management.
                     
                     
                     Practicum in International Business Specialized, ethnographic study of international business.  Students study business,
                        culture, history, tradition and language in a foreign country.  They utilize all of
                        their past experiences as business professionals, world travelers and students to
                        create new knowledge of possible business approaches and strategies overseas, and
                        share this knowledge with critical partners in their companies.
                     
                     
                     Top of Page
                     
                     Summer Session
                     
                     Creativity and Innovation Focused analysis and discussion of the imaginative, creative processes used for innovation
                        in business contexts.  Theoretical underpinnings of creativity and innovation are
                        explored; special attention is given to environmental effects on individual and group
                        creativity.  Creativity knowledge is applied in the areas of product ideation, innovation
                        management, and product design.
                     
                     
                      Self Leadership for Executives Major theories, concepts and principles of self-leadership; application of critical
                        thinking skills to the major theories, concepts and principles of self-leadership
                        with a view toward improving understanding of self-leadership; emphasis is given to
                        understanding each stage of the self-leadership process and to applying critical thinking
                        skills to each element of self-leadership and to the overall logic of self-leadership.
                     
                     
                     Special Topics in Business Administration: Innovation Project Project specific to each student's employer where they analyze, develop and implement
                        a strategy that will either earn $100,000, or more, in sales, or save their company
                        that amount. Each student will work with a faculty member as they develop the project
                        and will present to company representatives, in class, at the end of the following
                        semester.
                     
                     
                     Top of Page
                     
                     Domestic Residential Week
                     
                      Corporate Governance and Business Ethics Detailed analysis of the role of corporate governance in the free enterprise system
                        and capital markets; focused consideration of moral principals, ethical standards,
                        and corporate code of business ethics.
                     
                     
                     Strategic Human Resource Management - Session I Theories, research, and practice in managing human resources strategically in business
                        organizations; strategic HRM, legal environment & equal employment opportunity, job
                        analysis & design, planning & recruitment, selection & placement, training & development,
                        performance management, and turnover & retention.
                     
                     
                     Top of Page
                     
                     Fall Session
                     
                     Information Systems in the Global Enterprise Information technology's impact on globalizations of businesses; international IT
                        environment; models and issues in international IS; planning and managing global systems;
                        case studies and applications.
                     
                     
                     Strategic Human Resource Management - Session II Continued discussion and analysis of theories, research, and practice in managing
                        human resources strategically in business organizations; strategic HRM, legal environment
                        & equal employment opportunity, job analysis & design, planning & recruitment, selection
                        & placement, training & development, performance management, and turnover & retention.
                     
                     
                     Global Strategic Management Decisions and actions for development and implementation of long-term plans that determine
                        organizational performance; role of top management decision making in establishing
                        the firm’s mission; focus on strategic analysis of alternative actions; evaluation
                        of environmental conditions, industry characteristics, and organizational capabilities
                        in determining strategy in a global context.
                     
                     
                     Top of Page
                     
                     Program Format
                     
                     Segment 1
                     
                     Each fall, the Executive MBA Program admits a select cohort of managers and business
                        professionals to enter the Fall-to-Fall, lock-step program. The Executive MBA year
                        begins in mid-August with a week-long residential at an off-campus destination. In
                        this dynamic, off-site environment, students complete intensive courses in strategic
                        change management, as well as, leadership and team building. 
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Following the residential week, Executive MBA classes meet one day a week during the
                        Fall & Spring semesters on alternating Thursday evenings and Saturdays. Classes are
                        held in the state-of-the-art Executive MBA Seminar room in the Fogelman College of
                        Business & Economics Building. A typical Thursday class begins at 5:30pm and ends
                        at 9:40pm and Saturday classes begin at 7:45am and end at 5:15pm. In addition to the
                        August residential week, the fall and spring semesters consist of three courses each
                        semester, two held in-class and one on-line.
                     
                     
                     International Residency
                     
                     At the end of the first year, students participate in a twelve-day international residency
                        in a foreign country.  The exciting and demanding schedule includes business visits
                        and meetings with senior executives, lectures at foreign universities by distinguished
                        faculty, and meetings with key officials at government agencies and embassies.  In
                        addition, students participate in directed ethnographic studies, and other cultural
                        immersion experiences.  Previous classes have completed their residencies in Brazil,
                        Argentina, Chile, China, Switzerland, France, Germany, Poland, Turkey, Canada and
                        Mexico.
                     
                     
                     Segment 2
                     
                     A second one-week residential, held in mid-August, kicks off the final semester in
                        the program. In this residential component, students are challenged to take their
                        personal development to the next level with intense instruction in corporate governance
                        and ethics, as well as human resource management.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Following the residential week, Executive MBA classes again meet one day a week on
                        alternating Thursday evenings and Saturdays. Upon completion of all 41 credit hours
                        of course work in the seventeen month program, the Executive MBA student graduates
                        in December with a Master of Business Administration degree with an Executive concentration.
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                        
                           
                              
                              Curriculum
                              Admissions
                                    How To Apply
                                    Information Sessions
                                 
                              
                              Students
                                    Program Format
                                    Faculty
                                    Student Profile
                                    Tuition & Fees
                                    EMA Degree Learning Outcomes
                                 
                              
                              News & Updates
                              FAQs
                              Contact Us
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              The Program
                              Ready to take your career to your next level?  Let this program show you how.
                           
                           
                              How To Apply
                              What’s your first step?  Find out here!
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us!
                           
                           
                              Return to FCBE
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/19/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/executivemba/curriculum/index.php
