http://www.memphis.edu/sph/students_alumni/index.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			School of Public Health
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Programs
                        People
                        Students & Alumni
                        News
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	SPH
                              	
                        
                           	Students & Alumni
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Students & Alumni
                     
                     why attend an accredited school of public health?
                     
                     There are many reasons to choose a school that is accredited by the Council on Education
                        for Public Health (CEPH).  First and foremost, accreditation ensures that the school
                        meets the most rigorous standards for academic programs in public health and that
                        the curriculum incorporates the essential skills and knowledge needed by today's public
                        health professionals.  For prospective students considering a graduate degree in public
                        health, please click here to see CEPH's FAQs for Students.
                     
                     
                     Student town hall meetings
                     
                     Dr. Levy conducts monthly Town Hall meetings with students in the School of Public
                        Health to obtain feedback on improving the student experience.
                     
                     
                     Town Hall meetings are held monthly on Thursdays from 4-5 pm in Robison Hall, Room
                        217 and rotate among the various programs. The meeting schedule can be found here .
                     
                     
                     Feel free to come by to share your views or just say hello!
                     
                     What Students are Saying
                     
                     Students Adam Alexander, Asos Mahmood, and Nikko Carlson share their thoughts on obtaining
                        a graduate degree at the University of Memphis School of Public Health:
                     
                     
                                                
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Jessica Bell (MPH candidate): "I chose the University of Memphis' School of Public
                                    Health because I knew I would get the strong educational foundation needed to pursue
                                    my career in Epidemiology. Having graduated from the University of Memphis with my
                                    undergraduate degree in Biology, I had full confidence that the faculty and staff
                                    of the School of Public Health would ensure I gained an enhanced insight to my future
                                    career."
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Shukura Umi (MPH candidate): "UOM, SPH has been such a delightful, supportive choice
                                    for graduate school. I chose public health S.U.because I have a responsibility to
                                    make this world better, and public health is a compassionate field that has everyone
                                    in mind. I knew Memphis would be a terrific spot for me when I learned how modern
                                    the city is including Bikram Yoga studios, great weather and a plethora of healthy
                                    vegan choices!"
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Elizabeth Booker Houston (JD/MPH candidate): "I chose the JD/MPH program to pursue
                                    a career in public health law. During my time in the program, I was able to complete
                                    my practicum with the CDC's Public Health Law Program in Atlanta, Georgia. Now, I
                                    am applying for post-graduate law fellowships with organizations such as the Department
                                    of Health and Human Services, and I have the school to thank for these amazing career
                                    opportunities."
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Ramie Mansberg (MPH candidate): "As a native Memphian, I have always had a desire
                                    to serve the city of Memphis, so when I graduated from the University of Texas at
                                    Austin and began looking for the ramie right Public Health program, I looked here.
                                    This city and this school offer so many opportunities to apply what I learn in the
                                    classroom to the needs of the city. I am concentrating in Epidemiology and can't wait
                                    to apply it to my future endeavors as I work towards becoming a physician."
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Andrea Jacobo (MPH candidate): "I've always had a passion for community health. Through
                                    the Population Health Certificate, now the MPH program, my passion grew even more
                                    for public health. The program gives you the tools and confidence to be a leader in
                                    the field and make a difference."
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Rachel Barenie (JD/MPH candidate): "Pursuing a Master's in Public Health in tandem
                                    with a law degree brings my education full circle, better equipping me to serve the
                                    needs of my community and society as a whole. The JD/MPH program presents the ultimate
                                    opportunity to emerge as a leader and forge better health care access, quality, and
                                    treatment upon graduation."
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Alumni Spotlight
                     
                     Stephanie Grimes (MPH 2016; entering medical school in August, 2016): "Getting my
                        Master's in Public Health a the University of Memphis allowed me to learn the human
                        side of health and health behaviors, which will help me to be a better physician in
                        serving my patients. The MPH program was the key for me to gain a full scholarship
                        to medical school."
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     
                     Chris Mathews (Dual MSW/MPH degree, 2016): "After taking Epidemiology and Biostatistics,
                        I developed a strong foundation in research methodology that I can apply to Social
                        Work. Another benefit is that public health approaches issues from a macro-level,
                        allowing me to work on policy issues."
                     
                     Student associations
                     
                     SPH student associations facilitate communication and cohesiveness among students
                        and with faculty, provide opportunities for academic and professional growth through
                        collaboration with community organizations and volunteer events, and organize campus
                        events that promote public health.  Both the MHA Student Association and the Public
                        Health Student Association are also great resources for students who are new to the
                        university or the Memphis area, fostering connection and involvement.
                     
                     
                     MHA Student Association
                     
                     It is an exciting time to be a part of the Master of Healthcare Administration Student
                        Association (MHASA), seeing as our MHA program has been ranked 48th by U.S. News and
                        World Report.  We jumped 16 spots between 2011 and 2015, and will continue to rise.
                     
                     
                     The objectives of the MHASA are: (1) to promote an environment conducive to educational
                        and ethical development of professional, personal, and social skills in a manner that
                        will produce effective leaders in healthcare, (2) to provide a vehicle for constructive
                        student involvement, recognition, and representation in the profession of healthcare
                        administration, (3) To develop an association with local and regional healthcare executive
                        groups to enhance academic and career opportunities, (4) To inform members, potential
                        members, and others in the community of the purposes of the College; its goals, programs,
                        and benefits, (5) to provide students, faculty, and practitioners a forum for professional
                        interaction and dialogue concerning issues in healthcare administration, and (6) to
                        contribute to the quality of the CAHME accredited MHA program at the University of
                        Memphis. 
                     
                     
                     Public Health Student Association
                     
                     The Public Health Student Association (PHSA) strives to create a strong and enduring
                        foundation for future public health leaders. 
                     
                     
                     The PHSA mission is to (1) promote awareness of career and academic issues related
                        to the field of public health by serving as a voice to the faculty and administration,
                        (2) support all public health students at UofM academically, professionally, and socially,
                        (3) organize health-related volunteer activities within the community, (4) collaborate
                        with health organizations agencies, and associations regarding public health programming
                        activities, (5) encourage students to actively pursue educational and professional
                        development, and (6) host regular social events for public health students to foster
                        positive interactions among students, faculty and staff.
                     
                     
                     The objectives of the PHSA are to: (1) foster a rewarding graduate school experience
                        for its members, (2) develop a sense of community among all students and staff in
                        the School of Public Health, (3) provide members with resources that will enhance
                        their professional careers, (3) coordinate communication among student organizations
                        in the School of Public Health, (4) expand opportunities for student professional
                        development, (5) facilitate student dialogue with local, state, and national organizations,
                        (6) promote research opportunities through collaborative public health approaches
                        to disease prevention and health promotion, and (7) foster communication among students,
                        SPH faculty, staff, and administration.  For more information, contact us or visit our website .  Click here to read the October 2015 newsletter!
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     2016 PHSA Officers
                     
                     Leah Reish, President Meghan Meadows, Vice President Stephanie Modert, Secretary Victoria Liddle, Treasurer Obrenka Thompson, Social Action Chair Ashlyn Cahill, Advocacy Committee Chair
                     
                     
                     annual sph interdisciplinary case competition
                     
                     The Annual School of Public Health Interdisciplinary Case Competition (SPHICC) invites
                        graduate students from all academic programs across the university to work with a
                        team to improve the health of a local neighborhood by proposing community-based programs
                        and projects. SPHICC uses the BUILD Health Challenge framework to guide the student
                        teams through the case competition to develop solutions that are Bold, Upstream, Innovative,
                        Local and Data driven. After several months of preparation, students present their
                        solutions to a panel of community judges. First, second, and third place teams receive
                        small monetary prizes. The Fourth Annual SPHICC will involve students engaging with
                        the local neighborhood both to assess problems before developing their solutions and
                        to receive input on the development of their solutions from the members of the neighborhood. 
                        For more information about the SPHICC, please click here !
                     
                     
                     Doctoral Research in Progress
                     
                     School-wide informal seminars/brown bag lunches are held monthly for doctoral students
                        to present their research/work in progress. These student-coordinated, student-led
                        sessions are held the first Friday of each month from noon- 1 pm in Robison Hall,
                        Room 217. The topic/format rotates among the doctoral programs. The schedule is as
                        follows:
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Fri.,Sept. 2: Epidemiology (coordinated by Yu-Sheng Lee) Fri., Oct. 7: Health Systems and Policy (coordinated by Hyunmin Kim) Fri., Nov. 4: Social and Behavioral Science (coordinated by Shaila Strayhorn)
                     
                     
                     doctoral student receives travel scholarship
                     
                     Adam Alexander, a doctoral student in Social and Behavioral Sciences, was recently
                        awarded the 2016 Health Disparities Network Travel Scholarship from the Society for
                        Research on Nicotine and Tobacco to attend their national conference in in Chicago,
                        Illinois. This award supports researchers who are conducting tobacco research with
                        minority and underserved populations. Adam presented his poster titled, "Diet and physical activity differences between waterpipe smokers and non-smokers
                        in Aleppo, Syria" at the conference.
                     
                     
                     MPH student named to Memphis 20<30
                     
                     MPH student Eddie Wiley was recently featured in a Memphis Flyer article as one of
                        the 20 people under 30 making a difference in the Memphis area.  Click here for the story.
                     
                     
                     Alumni spotlighT
                     
                     Chigozie Emetarom, MPH (2010) is a medical student at Central Michigan University
                        and currently serves as Vice President of the Student National Medical Association CMED Chapter.  She will assume the Presidency
                        for the chapter next academic year.  Additionally, Ms. Emetarom reports that she was
                        recently accepted into the Clinical and Translational Research program at Harvard
                        this summer and is one of only six candidates
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Chee Lam, MPH (2012) After completing a fellowship with the Centers for Disease Control
                        and Prevention (CDC) in August 2015, Mr. Lam has been hired as a Public Health Advisor with
                        the CDC Division of Tuberculosis Elimination, and is currently assigned to work in
                        New York City. During his fellowship, Mr. Lam participated in CDC's Ebola response. 
                        He was initially detailed to CDC headquarters for approximately three months, and
                        then spent a month in Liberia during the re-emergence of the outbreak there in July. 
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Caroline Hamilton, MPH (2015) Ms. Hamilton is currently working for the Methodist
                        LeBonheur Healthcare System in the Primary Care Group in a managerial role.  A 2008
                        graduate of Lambuth University, she looks forward to utilizing the experience and
                        education gained through the MPH program to aid in creating the ideal patient experience
                        through the delivery of affordable and accessible care.  She is currently working
                        with a Methodist initiative of the National Committee for Quality Assurance, the Patient-Centered
                        Medical Home, to ensure that the primary care group emphasizes care coordination and
                        communication to make the experience "what the patient wants it to be."  Medical homes
                        can lead to higher quality and lower costs, and can improve both patient and provider
                        experience of care.
                     
                     
                     Rob Meister, MPH (2011) Mr. Meister is currently employed as a statistician with Integrity
                        Management Services, LLC in Alexandria, Virginia.  His responsibilities include helping
                        detect Medicare and Medicaid fraud.  Rob credits Professor George Relyea with providing
                        him the requisite skills for this position.  "Professor Relyea's course in large data
                        sets, employing sampling techniques, was the key that got me in the door."
                     
                     
                     sph photo gallery
                     
                     resources and information
                     
                                         
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply Now
                              
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              
                           
                           
                              Support SPH
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 11/7/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/sph/students_alumni/index.php
