http://www.memphis.edu/history/atozlist.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of History
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Why History?
                        Undergraduate
                        Graduate
                        Online
                        People
                        HERC
                        GAAAH
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Department of History
                              	
                        A to Z List
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     A to Z List — Department of History
                     
                     A    B    C    D    E    F    G    H    I    J    K    L    M    N    O    P    Q    R    S    T    U    V    W    X    Y    Z
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              A
                              
                           
                           
                           Academic integrity
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Advice to students about plagiarism and using sources
                                 
                                 Department of History policy about academic misconduct
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           Adjunct faculty
                           
                           Admission requirements
                              
                              
                                 
                                 M.A. program
                                 
                                 Ph.D. program
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           Advising
                              
                              
                                 
                                 M.A. students
                                 
                                 Online B.A. program students
                                 
                                 Ph.D. students
                                 
                                 Undergraduate students
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           African-American History, Conference in (pdf)
                           
                           
                           African-American History and Southern History, focus area in
                           
                           African-American History, Graduate Association for
                           
                           Alumni placement
                           
                           
                           
                           Assistants, teaching and graduate
                           
                           Assistantships, graduate
                           
                           
                              
                              B
                              
                           
                           
                           Baker, Bob, Scholarship
                           
                           Belle McWilliams Lecture Series
                           
                           Belle McWilliams Scholarship
                           
                           Best History Teaching Assistant Award
                           
                           Best Thesis and Best Dissertation Awards
                           
                           Biographical information about faculty members, index of
                           
                           Bob Baker Scholarship
                           
                           Bylaws of the Department of History (pdf)
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              C
                              
                           
                           
                           Calendar of events
                           
                           Center, History Educational Resource
                           
                           Cheating — see Academic integrity
                           
                           College-Level Examination Program (CLEP)
                           
                           Comprehensive examination
                              
                              
                                 
                                 M.A. program
                                 
                                 Ph.D. program
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           Computing resources
                           
                           Conduct, standards of professional
                           
                           Contact information (departmental addresses, telephone numbers, e-mail addresses)
                           
                           Course levels, undergraduate, table of (pdf)
                           
                           
                           Credit by examination  — see College-Level Examination Program (CLEP)
                           
                           Credits, previously earned, Ph.D. program
                           
                           
                              
                              D
                              
                           
                           
                           Degree requirements
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Departmental requirements and restrictions for M.A. degree
                                 
                                 Departmental requirements and restrictions for Ph.D. degree
                                 
                                 Graduate School requirements for M.A. or Ph.D. in History
                                 
                                 University requirements for B.A. in History
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           Departmental calendar of events
                           
                           Dishonesty, academic — see Academic integrity
                           
                           Dissertation fellowships
                           
                           Dissertation requirements, Ph.D. program
                           
                           Dissertation Research Grant
                           
                           Dissertations in history, recent
                           
                           
                           
                           Doctoral program — see Ph.D. program
                           
                           
                              
                              E
                              
                           
                           
                           Egyptology
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Department of History graduate program in Egyptology
                                 
                                 Interdisciplinary program, focus area in Egyptology
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           E-mail, information about
                           
                           Emeriti faculty
                           
                           Employment as a historian
                           
                           Enrollment in a graduate class, how to request a permit for  (pdf)
                           
                           
                           Enrollment in an undergraduate class, how to request a permit for (pdf)
                           
                           
                           Epsilon Nu chapter of Phi Alpha Theta
                           
                           European History, focus area in (Modern European History)
                           
                           Events, calendar of
                           
                           Examination, credit by  — see College-Level Examination Program (CLEP)
                           
                           
                              
                              F
                              
                           
                           
                           Facebook, departmental page on
                           
                           Faculty
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Adjunct
                                 
                                 Emeriti
                                 
                                 Full-time
                                 
                                 Information for
                                 
                                 Teaching assistants
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           Family history, focus area in (women, gender, and family history)
                           
                           Fellowships, graduate
                           
                           Fields of study, Ph.D. program
                           
                           Financial aid (departmental)
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Graduate
                                 
                                 Undergraduate
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           African-American History and Southern History
                           
                           Egyptology
                           
                           Global History
                           
                           Modern European History
                           
                           Women, Gender, and Family History
                           
                           Foreign language requirement, Ph.D. program
                           
                           
                           
                           Forms and applications
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Undergraduate
                                 
                                 Graduate
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for future students
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Future undergraduate students
                                 
                                 Future graduate students
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              G
                              
                           
                           
                           Gender, focus area in (women, gender, and family history)
                           
                           Gillaspie, William R. and Helen Lucille, Scholarship
                           
                           Grades
                              
                              
                                 
                                 M.A. program
                                 
                                 Ph.D. program
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           Graduate assistants
                           
                           Graduate Association for African-American History
                           
                           Graduate fellowships
                           
                           Graduate History Association
                           
                           Graduate program — see M.A. program or Ph.D. program
                           
                           Graduate students in History, guide for
                           
                           Graduate students, information for
                           
                           Guide for Graduate Students in History
                           
                           Guidelines for tenure and promotion, departmental (pdf)
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              H
                              
                           
                           
                           Happenings (news about the department)
                           
                           HERC  — see History Educational Resource Center
                           
                           Historian, employment as a
                           
                           Historians, standards of professional conduct for
                           
                           Historical resources, local
                           
                           Historical writing, tutoring in, by the History Educational Resource Center
                           
                           History and history-related resources online
                           
                           History Day — see West Tennessee History Day
                           
                           History, Department of (home page)
                           
                           History Educational Resource Center
                           
                           History happenings (news about the department)
                           
                           Honors Program in History
                           
                           Honors contract, guidelines for (pdf)
                           
                           
                           Honors thesis, guidelines for (pdf)
                           
                           
                           Hypostyle Hall Project at Karnak
                           
                           
                              
                              I
                              
                           
                           
                           Integrity, academic — see Academic integrity
                           
                           Internship for undergraduates
                           
                           
                              
                              J
                              
                           
                           
                           Janann Sherman Undergraduate Award for the Study of Women’s History
                           
                           
                              
                              K
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        
                           
                           Karnak Hypostyle Hall Project
                           
                           Kell F. Mitchell Memorial Undergraduate Scholarship
                           
                           
                              
                              L
                              
                           
                           
                           Laboratories, computer
                           
                           Lecture series
                           
                           Library resources for historical research
                           
                           Local historical resources
                           
                           
                              
                              M
                              
                           
                           
                           M.A. program
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Advising
                                 
                                 Application
                                 
                                 Comprehensive examination
                                 
                                 Grades
                                 
                                 Nature of course offerings
                                 
                                 Overview of the program
                                 
                                 Planning form (MS Word)
                                 
                                 
                                 Preparing to graduate
                                 
                                 Requirements and restrictions
                                 
                                 The program
                                 
                                 Thesis
                                 
                                 Time limitation
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           Major L. Wilson Graduate Paper Prize
                           
                           Major L. Wilson Undergraduate Paper Prize
                           
                           McWilliams, Belle, Lecture Series
                           
                           McWilliams, Belle, Scholarship
                           
                           Memphis Sesquicentennial Lecture Series
                           
                           Mini-catalogs
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Undergraduate
                                 
                                 Graduate
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           Misconduct, academic — see Academic integrity
                           
                           Mission statement
                           
                           Mitchell, Kell F., Memorial Undergraduate Scholarship
                           
                           Modern European History, focus area in
                           
                           Museum Studies, interdisciplinary program in
                           
                           
                              
                              N
                              
                           
                           
                           News about the department
                           
                           Newsletter
                           
                           
                              
                              O
                              
                           
                           
                           Online Bachelor of Arts in History program
                           
                           Online Master of Arts in History program
                           
                           
                              
                              P
                              
                           
                           
                           Part-time faculty
                           
                           Permit for enrollment in a graduate class, how to request a  (pdf)
                           
                           
                           Permit for enrollment in an undergraduate class, how to request a (pdf)
                           
                           
                           Phi Alpha Theta, Epsilon Nu chapter
                           
                           Ph.D. program
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Advising
                                 
                                 Advisory Committee approval form for registration (MS Word)
                                 
                                 
                                 Application
                                 
                                 Comprehensive examination
                                 
                                 Dissertation
                                 
                                 Dissertation Committee approval form for registration (MS Word)
                                 
                                 
                                 Fields of study
                                 
                                 Foreign language requirement
                                 
                                 Grades
                                 
                                 Nature of course offerings
                                 
                                 Overview of the program
                                 
                                 Planning form (MS Word)
                                 
                                 
                                 Previously earned credits
                                 
                                 Prospectus
                                 
                                 Reading lists for Ph.D. comprehensive examination fields
                                 
                                 Requirements and restrictions
                                 
                                 Placement, alumni
                                 
                                 The program
                                 
                                 Time limitation
                                 
                                 Transfer of credit
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           Plagiarism — see Academic integrity
                           
                           Planning forms
                              
                              
                                 
                                 M.A. degree (MS Word)
                                 
                                 
                                 Ph.D. degree (MS Word)
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           Professional conduct for historians, standards of
                           
                           Prospectus for dissertation
                           
                           
                              
                              Q
                              
                           
                           
                           [No entries for the letter Q]
                           
                           
                              
                              R
                              
                           
                           
                           Recent dissertations in history
                           
                           Recent happenings (news about the department)
                           
                           Registration approval forms for Ph.D. students
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Advisory Committee approval form for registration (MS Word)
                                 
                                 
                                 Dissertation Committee approval form for registration (MS Word)
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           Request a permit for enrollment in a graduate class, how to  (pdf)
                           
                           
                           Request a permit for enrollment in an undergraduate class, how to (pdf)
                           
                           
                           Requirements for degrees in History — see Degree requirements
                           
                           Requirements for tenure and promotion in the Department of History — see Tenure and promotion guidelines, departmental
                           
                           Resources, historical
                           
                           Resources, historical, local
                           
                           Ruth and Harry Woodbury Fellowship in Southern History
                           
                           
                              
                              S
                              
                           
                           
                           Scholarships, undergraduate
                           
                           Search the pages of the Department of History site
                           
                           Sesquicentennial, Memphis, Lecture Series
                           
                           Sherman, Janann, Undergraduate Award for the Study of Women's History
                           
                           Smart carts
                           
                           Smart classrooms
                           
                           Southern history, focus area in (African American History and Southern History)
                           
                           Standards of professional conduct for historians
                           
                           Student organizations
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Graduate Association for African American History
                                 
                                 Graduate History Association
                                 
                                 Phi Alpha Theta (Epsilon Nu chapter)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              T
                              
                           
                           
                           T&P — see Tenure and promotion guidelines, departmental
                           
                           T and P — see Tenure and promotion guidelines, departmental
                           
                           Teaching assistants
                           
                           Tennessee History Day
                           
                           Tenure and promotion guidelines, departmental (pdf)
                           
                           
                           The HERC  — see History Educational Resource Center
                           
                           Thesis, M.A. program
                           
                           Time limitation
                              
                              
                                 
                                 M.A. program
                                 
                                 Ph.D. program
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           Timetable
                              
                              
                                 
                                 M.A. program
                                 
                                 Ph.D. program
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           Tutoring in historical writing by the History Educational Resource Center
                           
                           Twitter, departmental page on
                           
                           
                              
                              U
                              
                           
                           
                           Undergraduate students, information for
                           
                           
                              
                              V
                              
                           
                           
                           Video carts
                           
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              W
                              
                           
                           
                           West Tennessee History Day
                           
                           Why study history?
                           
                           William R. and Helen Lucille Gillaspie Scholarship
                           
                           Wilson, Major L., Graduate Paper Prize
                           
                           Wilson, Major L., Undergraduate Paper Prize
                           
                           Wireless computing, information about
                           
                           Women, gender, and family history, focus area in
                           
                           Women’s History, Janann Sherman Award for the Study of
                           
                           Woodbury, Ruth and Harry, Fellowship in Southern History
                           
                           Writing, tutoring in, by the History Educational Resource Center
                           
                           
                              
                              X
                              
                           
                           
                           [No entries for the letter X]
                           
                           
                              
                              Y
                              
                           
                           
                           [No entries for the letter Y]
                           
                           
                              
                              Z
                              
                           
                           
                           [No entries for the letter Z]
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              History Happenings
                              Significant happenings that involve our faculty, students, staff, and alumni.
                           
                           
                              Newsletter
                              The department newsletter is filled with interesting articles and information about
                                 our award-winning faculty and students.
                              
                           
                           
                              Memphis Massacre
                              This project is designed to call public attention to an event that rattled Reconstruction-era
                                 Memphis in May 1866. Click on the link to read more about it and see the schedule
                                 of events for this April and May 2016.
                              
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Contact the Department of History at The University of Memphis.
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 11/3/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/history/atozlist.php
