http://www.memphis.edu/history/history-happenings/happenings_2015.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of History
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Why History?
                        Undergraduate
                        Graduate
                        Online
                        Faculty
                        HERC
                        GAAAH
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Department of History
                              	
                        
                              	History Happenings
                              	
                        History Happenings for 2015
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     History Happenings for 2015
                     
                      Graduate Award Committee Announces Research and Conference Funding Recipients
                     
                     [18 December 2015] The Graduate Awards Committee is pleased to announce the recipients of Spring and
                        Summer 2016 research and conference funding:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Hafife Montgomery: Research in Germany
                        
                        Matthew Isaacs: Research in New York
                        
                        Kyra Clapper: Conference presentation in Seattle
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      On its 80th anniversary, Dr. Susan O'Donovan reflects on Du Bois's Black Reconstruction
                     
                     [17 December 2015] In recognition of the 80th anniversary of the publication of W. E. B. Du Bois's canonical
                        Black Reconstruction: An Essay toward a History of the Part Which Black Folk Played
                        in the Attempt to Reconstruct Democracy in America, 1860-1880, editors at Labor: Studies
                        in Working-Class History of the Americas invited four historians (including our own
                        Susan O'Donovan) to reflect upon this classic and to weigh its continued relevance
                        in light of several subsequent generations of scholarship on slavery and its demise.
                        Professor O'Donovan's essay, as well as those by Brian Kelly (Queens University, Belfast),
                        Tera W. Hunter (Princeton), and Jason P. McGraw (Indiana University), can be found
                        in the December 2015 issue of Labor.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      Dr. Peter Brand interviewed about King Tut's tomb
                     
                     
                     [30 November 2015] Dr. Peter Brand was interviewd for the BBC Radio 5 overnight program about the radar
                        scan of Tut's tombs. You can listen to the program here .
                     
                     
                       Dr. Aram Goudsouzian and Dr. Chris Johnson participate at ASALH Confernece
                     
                     
                     The University of Memphis was well represented at the centennial conference of the
                        Association for the Study of African American Life and History (ASALH), held in Atlanta
                        from September 23 to 26. U of M History professors Aram Goudsouzian and Chris Johnson
                        participated in roundtables and panels, as did a number of recent PhDs from the department,
                        including Michael Blum, Daryl Carter, Le'Trice Donaldson, Reggie Ellis, K.T. Ewing,
                        David Jackson, Sheena Harris, Shirletta Kinchen, and Darius Young. Other noteworthy
                        participants included Armanthia Duncan, an MA graduate of the program and current
                        doctoral student in Sociology at UMass-Amherst; Andre Johnson, assistant professor
                        of Communication at the University of Memphis; and Arwin Smallwood, department chair
                        at North Carolina A&T and a former professor in our department.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                       Dr. James Fickle Awarded a Dunavant Professorship from the College of Arts and Sciences
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     [26 Aug 2015] From the Memphis Accolades webpage, "Dr. James E. Fickle is a specialist in United States forest history and
                        is currently a professor of history at The University of Memphis in Memphis, Tennessee,
                        and Visiting Professor of Forest and Environmental History at the Yale University
                        School of Forestry and Environmental Studies. He has written numerous books and articles
                        dealing with the subject of Southern forest history, His books have been very favorably
                        reviewed in the professional journals, and his articles have won academic prizes in
                        their field. He is a frequent reviewer for academic journals and often speaks at historical
                        and forestry meetings across the country. His most recent book is a book entitled
                        Green Gold; Alabama's Forests and Forest Industries which was published in 2014. He
                        has also completed a history of the U.S. Forest Products Laboratory for the U.S. Forest
                        Service and the Forest History Society. He has also received a grant from the U.S.
                        Forest Service to write a history of bottomland hardwood research in the South, and
                        has been conducting interviews and visiting archival depositories across the nation
                        in connection with this project. He is also serving as the consultant for the production
                        of a state forest history in Alaska, and has recently been a member of the organizing
                        board of the new U.S. Forest Service history museum in Missoula, Montana."
                     
                     
                      
                     
                       New Translation of Dr. Andrei Znamenski's book  Red Shambhala
                     
                     
                     [20 August 2015] The Italian edition of Andrei Znamenski's book was just published by Settimo Sigillo
                     Publishers as part of their series "Europe Libreria Editrice" under the title Shambhala
                     Rossa: Magia, profezia e geopolitica nel cuore dell'Asia.
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                       Dr Julie Elb wins O. Wayne Rollins Award for Excellence in Teaching at Westminster
                        Schools
                     
                     
                     [17 August 2015]  We reported several months ago that Dr Julie Elb had won the TEAMS (Consortium for the Teaching of the Middle Ages)
                        Award at the Westminster Schools in Atlanta.
                     
                     
                     She has now received the O. Wayne Rollins Award for Excellence in Teaching at Westminster, which
                        is the highest award the school gives, The criteria that a teacher must satisfy to
                        receive the award are extensive:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Provide consistent, clear, and challenging expectations for students
                        
                        Motivate, inspire, and empower students to pursue intellectual curiosity and solve
                           problems in a collaborative learning atmosphere
                        
                        
                        Foster trusting, safe, and nurturing environments
                        
                        Demonstrate a willingness to take risks and an openness to engaging new ideas
                        
                        Stay current with evolving teaching strategies and methodologies
                        
                        Model reflective practices, and seek opportunities to grow professionally
                        
                        Show care and concern for every student
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                       Malcolm Frierson receives his PhD in history at summer commencement
                     
                     
                     [10 August 2015]  Dr Malcolm Frierson received his degree during summer commencement on Saturday, 8
                        August. Dr Aram Goudsouzian was his major adviser. His dissertation was entitled “Coming
                        to the Stage: Dick Gregory, Bill Cosby, and the Politics of African American Comedy,
                        1961-1975.”
                     
                     
                      
                     
                       Graham Perry wins award from West Tennessee Historical Society for article
                     
                     
                     [10 August 2015]  Since 1973, an award is presented by The West Tennessee Historical Society to the
                        contributor of the article judged by the Executive Committee to be the best of those
                        printed in each number of The West Tennessee Historical Society Papers .
                     
                     
                     The 2014 Marshall Wingfield award recipient is G. Graham Perry, III, Curator of Social
                        History at the Tennessee State Museum, for his article “The NAACP, Militancy and the
                        Memphis Sit-ins.” Mr Perry is a doctoral candidate in history at The University of
                        Memphis. He is a past contributor to the 2008 Papers with his article “A Bend in the River: An Investigation of Black Agency, Autonomy,
                        and Resistance in Memphis, Tennessee (1846-1866).”
                     
                     
                     The award was made at the Shelby County History Awards Dinner held on 5 August, at
                        which students who were winners of West Tennessee History Day also were honored.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                       Provost’s Blog reports on West Tennessee History Day students' project on the Tuskegee
                        Airmen
                     
                     
                     [29 July 2015]  The Provost’s Blog today had an article written by Lisa Sikkink entitled “Red Tails Fight Red Bands Abroad and Red
                           Tape at Home” about a project by students from Dyersburg High School that won prizes at both the
                        West Tennessee History Day competition held on our campus on 21 February and at Tennessee
                        History Day held in Nashville on 11 April. In National History Day competition held
                        at the University of Maryland-College Park on 14-18 June their project on the Tuskegee
                        Airmen in World War II was selected to showcase at the National Museum of American
                        History. Three of the Tuskegee Airmen — Lt. Col. George Hardy, Lt. Col. Charles McGee,
                        and Tech Sgt. Norman Artis — joined the students for part of the day.
                     
                     
                     The article has much information about how the students, Maya Harris and Logan Miller,
                        under the direction of their teacher Jeff Golson, went about preparing the project;
                        comments by Jennifer Core, director of Tennesse History Day; and a description of
                        how West Tennessee History Day is administered by Dr Susan O’Donovan and her past
                        assistants Caroline Mitchell Carrico and Micki Kaleta, and incoming assistant Ashley
                        Dabbraccio.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                       Dr Kaylin T. Ewing appointed as assistant professor of history at Tennessee State
                        University
                     
                     
                     [24 July 2015]  Dr Kaylin T. Ewing, a 2014 alumna of our doctoral program, has been appointed as
                        an assistant professor of history at Tennessee State University. She graduated in
                        December 2014 with a dissertation on the Memphis blues singer entitled “Her Own Kind
                        of Woman”: The Life of Alberta Hunter, written under the direction of Dr Beverly Bond
                        as her major professor.
                     
                     
                     Dr Ewing will join an alumnus of our program, Dr Michael Bertrand, who graduated in
                        1995 with a dissertation on another form of American music entitled “Southern Youth
                        in Dissent: Rock ’n’ Roll, Race, and Elvis Presley, 1945-1960,” written under the
                        direction of Dr Charles Crawford. The dissertation became a book, Race, Rock, and Elvis , published in 2004 by the University of Illinois Press in its series Music in American
                        Life.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                       Dr Andrei Znamenski attends conferences in Estonia and Altai Republic
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     [10 July 2015]  Dr Andrei Znamenski delivered a paper entitled “‘Patriot Games’: Alaska in Geopolitical
                        Rhetoric of Russian Nationalism” on 25 June in Tallinn, Estonia, at a conference on
                        historical geography.
                     
                     
                     He now is on the way to another conference, on indigenous prophecies of Inner Asia,
                        that will be held in the Altai Republic, which is located in the very geographical
                        center of Asia.
                     
                     
                     Tallinn is an old medieval town, founded in the early 1200s. Here are two photographs
                        of the town: Dr Znamenski at the left and a friendly seagull at the right.
                     
                     
                       
                     
                       Steve Knowlton publishes article on the election of Harold E. Ford, Sr., to Congress
                     
                     
                     [ 25 June 2015] Steven A. Knowlton, an MA candidate in History and a Collection Development Librarian
                        at McWherter Library, has published an article in the most recent edition of the Tennessee Historical Quarterly entitled “‘A Democrat for All the People’: The Historic Election of Harold E. Ford,
                        Sr., to the United States House of Representatives.”
                     
                     
                     Mr Knowlton will defend his MA thesis on race and the Memphis libraries next week.
                     
                      
                     
                       Dr Aram Goudsouzian writes and speaks about the Charleston murders and the Confederate
                        flag
                     
                     
                     [25 June 2015]  Dr Aram Goudsouzian, chair of the Department of History and a scholar of African-American
                        history, recently wrote an op-ed article for Al Jazeera and appeared along with Dr Lasimba Gray in a news item on News Channel 3 about the controversy over the Confederate flag in the aftermath of the murders in
                        Charleston of nine black worshipers, including the pastor, during a Bible study session.
                        The accused person displayed the flag in several photographs of himself on websites, 
                     
                     
                      
                     
                       Dr Julie Elb wins teaching prize, has paper accepted for publication, and presents
                        paper at scholarly conference
                     
                     
                     [17 June 2015] Dr Julie Elb, a PhD alumna in history of 2003, has won the 2015 Teaching Prize from
                        TEAMS: The Consortium for the Teaching of the Middle Ages for a lesson plan she wrote
                        on incorporating Byzantine perspectives when teaching the early middle ages, particularly
                        the coronation of Charlemagne. She will be funded to present her winning entry at
                        next year’s International Medieval Congress in Kalamazoo, Michigan. Her entry will
                        also be featured in an upcoming issue of Once and Future Classroom . The purpose of the TEAMS award is “To recognize excellence in designing and teaching
                        lessons in medieval studies, including but not limited to such areas as history, literature,
                        and art history, in K-12 schools.”
                     
                     
                     
                     Her recent article “‘A mint of phrases in his brain’: Language, Historiography and
                        the Authorship Question in Love’s Labour's Lost ” has been accepted for publication and will appear in the September 2015 issue of
                        The Oxfordian , volume 17.
                     
                     
                     Additionally, she presented a paper, “Feast of Burden: Food, Consumption, and Changing
                        Conceptions of Femininity,” at the annual meeting of the Western Society for Eighteenth-Century
                        Studies at California Polytechnic State University this past February (the photograph
                        shows her making the presentation). The theme of the meeting was “Race, Gender, and
                        Empire in the Long Eighteenth Century.”
                     
                     
                     Dr Elb teaches AP European history, history of the modern world, and history of the
                        ancient world at The Westminster Schools, Atlanta, Georgia. Her 2003 dissertation
                        was written under the direction of Dr Walter R. Brown as major professor.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                       Dr Michael Blum wins McClung Award from the East Tennessee Historical Society
                     
                     
                     [16 June 2015]  Dr Michael Blum, assistant professor of history at Jarvis Christian College, has
                        been selected as the winner of the 2014 McClung Award for his essay entitled “’Everyone
                        You Don't Like is a Communist’: The Highlander Center and the Civil Rights Movement
                        in Knoxville, 1961-1971.”
                     
                     
                     The McClung Award is awarded by the East Tennessee Historical Society to the contributor
                        of the paper judged to be the best of those printed in each number of The Journal of East Tennessee History (formerly the East Tennessee Historical Society's Publications ). Originality, scholarship, power of interpretation, clarity of expression, logical
                        arrangement, and literary form are criteria considered by judges when selecting the
                        winner. The award is in memory of Calvin Morgan and Barbara Adair McClung, founders
                        of a notable collection of Tennessee and Southern history at the Lawson McGhee Library
                        in Knoxville, Tennessee.
                     
                     
                     Dr Blum earned a PhD in history from The University of Memphis in 2014, writing a
                        dissertation entitled “‘An Island of Peace in a Sea of Racial Strife’: The Civil Rights
                        Movement in Knoxville, Tennessee” with Dr Aram Goudsouzian as major professor. He
                        is also the proprietor of @academicpresses, a Twitter account that distributes the
                        best content from university presses worldwide.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                       Dr Catherine Phipps and Dr William Campbell receive Faculty Fellowships from Orr
                        Center for the Humanities
                     
                     
                     [10 June 2015] Dr Catherine Phipps and Dr William Campbell have received two of the three Faculty
                        Fellowships for Spring Semester 2016 awarded by the Marcus W. Orr Center for the Humanities. 
                     
                     
                     The purpose of this program is to encourage, facilitate, and highlight excellent research
                        in the humanities and cognate disciplines at the University of Memphis. Operated in
                        tandem with the MOCH Dissertation Fellowship Program, this program allows recipients
                        to write and research in a collaborative, interdisciplinary environment alongside
                        other research-active faculty members and advanced doctoral students.
                     
                     
                     Faculty Fellowships are awarded to tenure-stream faculty members in the humanities
                        departments (English, Foreign Languages & Literatures, History, Philosophy) of the College
                        of Arts and Sciences. (MOCH also awards the Deborah L. Talbot Fellowship in Interdisciplinary
                        Inquiry to a non-humanities faculty member working in related areas.)
                     
                     
                     Fellowships provide one semester of research leave and related support in Spring 2016
                        and an occasion to showcase work in a public forum. Faculty Fellows will receive their
                        usual pay and benefits during this period and will be relieved of teaching duties
                        (except for dissertation supervision) and other responsibilities (subject to negotiation
                        with the departmental chair). Fellows will also receive a modest stipend to be used
                        for research-related activities and supplies and access to a collaborative workspace
                        in the new MOCH office in Scates Hall.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                       GoGrad ranks online master’s program in history in top 10 nationally
                     
                     
                     [5 June 2015]   Memphis Business Journal reported today that GoGrad's ranking of online master's degrees has placed the online M.A. history program at The University of Memphis as 10th in the nation.
                     
                     
                     GoGrad is an online resource for affordable online graduate programs. Its rankings
                        are based on data including the number of online degrees offered in a related area,
                        graduate tuition, the availability of academic and career counseling services, access
                        to job placement services, and peer-based value.
                     
                     
                     See the entire list of GoGrad’s top-ranked online master's programs in history .
                     
                     
                      
                     
                       Dr Sarah Potter and Dr Dennis Laumann take on new administrative roles 
                     
                     
                     [26 May 2015]   Dr Sarah Potter has accepted a position as the assistant director of the Marcus
                        W. Orr Center for the Humanities. Stephan Blatti, the director, is now chairing the
                        Department of Philosophy, and he and Dr Potter will be working together on MOCH through
                        the fall. There will be a search for a MOCH director, who will officially begin in
                        the spring semester.
                     
                     
                     The Orr Center is named in honor of Dr Marcus W. Orr, who was our medievalist for
                        many years, and the department has always been a strong contributor to its programs.
                        In recent years Dr Aram Goudsouzian and Dr Jonathan Judaken have served as directors.
                        Our Belle McWilliams lecture series in U. S. history and our Memphis Sesquicentennial
                        lecture series in non-U.S. history are events of the Orr Center.
                     
                     
                     Dr Potter has been serving as the department’s director of undergraduate studies.
                        Dr Dennis Laumann has graciously agreed to assume the duties of that office for the
                        time being.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                       Dr Yan Gao wins fellowship from the Rachel Carson Center for Environment and Society
                     
                     
                     [21 May 2015]  Dr Yan Gao has won a very competitive and prestigious fellowship from the Rachel Carson Center for Environment and Society . It is a six-month residential fellowship in Germany, at Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität
                        in Munich, which she will take starting in the summer of 2016. She works principally
                        with Chinese culture and history, particularly its environmental history.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                       Dr Dennis Laumann attends conference and meetings in Oran
                     
                     
                     [19 May 2015] Dr Dennis Laumann returned to Oran, Algeria, last week for an annual conference and
                        a series of meetings at the University of Oran.
                     
                     
                     At the VII International Conference hosted by the university’s Languages, Literature,
                        and Civilization/History in Africa center, he delivered a presentation entitled “When
                        resistance leads to genocide: The Herero of German South-West Africa.” The blog Africa is a Country recently posted a short piece on this subject by Dr Laumann .
                     
                     
                     
                     He is shown, above, being interviewed.
                     
                     While in Oran, he met with Ali Belabbes, a graduate student and teacher who is translating
                        Dr Laumann's book Colonial Africa, 1884-1994 (Oxford University Press, 2013) into Arabic for publication later this year by Dar
                        El Adib Editions in Algeria.
                     
                     
                     He also held a meeting with his colleague Dr Hanane El Bachir, with whom he serves
                        as co-editor-in-chief of the scholarly journal Africa and the West .
                     
                     
                      
                     
                       “Down to the Crossroads” wins award from Tennessee Historical Commission
                     
                     
                     [19 May 2015]  Dr Aram Goudsouzian’s book  Down to the Crossroads: Civil Rights, Black Power, and the Meredith March Against
                           Fear has won a Certificate of Merit Award from the Tennessee Historical Commission. It
                        will be presented at a ceremony at the Clover Bottom Mansion in Nashville later this
                        month. The award recognizes "individuals, publications, projects, and programs that
                        make significant contributions to the study of history and/or historic preservation
                        efforts" in Tennessee.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                       Dr Leigh Ann Wilson honored as outstanding faculty member at Brandman University
                     
                     
                     [15 May 2015]  Dr Leigh Ann Wilson, who is completing her third year of teaching at Brandman University,
                        a division of Chapman University, was honored by the university as the outstanding
                        faculty member in the School of Arts & Sciences for this year. Dr Wilson is teaching
                        entirely online and is doing a lot of course development.
                     
                     
                     She received her PhD from us in 2012, writing a dissertation, with Dr Janann Sherman
                        as major professor, entitled Fighting Two "Devils": Eleuterio Escobar and the School
                        Improvement League's Battle for Mexican and Mexican-American Students' Educational
                        Equality in the San Antonio, Texas Public Schools, 1934 to 1958.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                       Le'Trice Donaldson and James Conway awarded PhD degrees in Spring 2015 commencement
                     
                     
                     [13 May 2015]  At the Spring 2015 commencement, held in the FedExForum on a Sunday afternoon (10
                        May) which happened to be Mother’s Day because the Forum was in use for a playoff
                        game for the NBA on Saturday, Le’Trice Donaldson and James Conway received the PhD
                        degree in history. 
                     
                     
                     Dr Donaldson wrote her dissertation, A Legacy All Their Own: African American Soldiers
                        Fight for Citizenship, Race, and Manhood, 1870-1920, under the direction of Dr Stephen
                        Stein. It is a re-examination of the black soldier and how he evolved into a race
                        warrior, through an analysis of African American soldiers during the period 1870-1920
                        and how they constructed and comported their citizenship manhood through interconnection
                        with the African-American community, 
                     
                     
                     Dr Conway wrote his dissertation, Moderated Militants in the Age of Black Power: The
                        Memphis NAACP, 1968-1975, under the direction of Dr Aram Goudsouzian. It is a study
                        of the Memphis NAACP and Black community protest during the critical but often overlooked
                        period after the assassination of Dr Martin Luther King, Jr., during the period 1968-1975,
                        years in which the organization led three major campaigns: the Ghetto Development
                        Project, Black Monday protest, and the school busing initiative.
                     
                     
                     (The photograph was supplied by the Facebook page of the Graduate Association for African-American History .)
                     
                      
                     
                     Second volume of Dr Beverly Bond’s Tennessee Women: Their Lives and Times published
                     
                     
                     [8 May 2015]  The University of Georgia Press has published volume two of Tennessee Women: Their Lives and Times , edited by our Dr Beverly Bond and Dr Sarah Wilkerson Freeman, professor of history
                        at Arkansas State University. The first volume was published in 2009. Both volumes
                        are in the series Southern Women: Their Lives and Times .
                     
                     
                     The book will be available for purchase in July 2015.
                     
                     The volume consists of sixteen essays that look at antebellum issues of gender, race,
                        and class; the impact of the Civil War on women’s lives; parades and public celebrations
                        as venues for displaying and challenging gender ideals; female activism on racial
                        and gender issues; the impact of state legislation on marital rights; and the place
                        of women in particular religious organizations.
                     
                     
                     Many of the contributors are connected with our department. Dr Bond wrote on African-American
                        women and slavery in Tennessee, and Dr Margaret Caffrey wrote on Lide Meriwether.
                        Recipients of the PhD from our department included Dr Gary Edwards, on antebellum
                        female plainfolk; Dr Ann Young Mulhearn, on women, faith, and social justice in Memphis,
                        1950-1968; Dr Cynthia Sadler, on Memphis Mardi Gras, Cotton Carnival, and Cotton Makers’
                        Jubilee; and Dr Elton H. Weaver III, on Church of God in Christ women in Tennessee,
                        early 1900s-1950. Current doctoral student Frances Wright Breland wrote on women’s
                        marital rights after the Married Women’s Property Rights Act of 1913.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Dr Guiomar Dueñas-Vargas’ book about love and other passions in Bogotá is published
                        in English
                     
                     
                     [6 May 2015]  Dr Guiomar Dueñas-Vargas' new book, Of Love and Other Passions: Elites, Politics, and Family in Bogotá, Colombia, 1778–1870 , has been translated into English and published by the University of New Mexico Press.
                     
                     
                     It was published in Colombia in 2014 under the title  Del amor y otras pasiones: Élites, política y familia en Bogotá, 1778-1870  (see our earlier article in “History Happenings”  about the lanzimiento for it, held in June 2014).
                     
                     
                     Dr Dueñas-Vargas’ book differs from most studies of the period, which solely on the
                        country’s political activity, it shows how Colombia’s social, cultural, and political
                        changes transformed the meaning of love, which contributed to the evolution of new
                        models of femininity and masculinity. By examining sources such as personal letters
                        and diaries, Dr Dueñas-Vargas presents the emotional profiles of families and couples,
                        demonstrating how their conduct challenged the established order. As lovers insisted
                        on choosing their own mates rather than marrying spouses selected by their parents,
                        they undermined the patriarchal structure of Colombian society.  
                     
                     
                     Full information about the book is available from the University of New Mexico Press .
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Dr Chris Ivanes receives Fulbright Fellowship to teach in the US
                     
                     [4 May 2015]  Since he completed his degree in 2010, Dr Chris Ivanes has been working for the Romanian
                        Public Radio as an editor and broadcaster of various programs: economics, European
                        affairs, debates, talk shows, and interviews. He is also an associate lecturer athe
                        Department of European Studies at the Sapientia-Hungarian University of Transylvania,
                        where he teaches modern Romanian history and political science.
                     
                     
                     In 2010, he published a book based on his PhD dissertation: National Ideology and the Making of a Nation: Simion Bă rnuţiu and the Romanian Revolution of 1848-1849 in Transylvania (Eikon Publishing House, Cluj, Romania). This is the first Simion Bărnuţiu (Romanian
                        Transylvanian hero of the 1848-1849 Revolution) monograph ever written in English.
                        This book received the prestigious “George Bariţiu” Award of the Romanian Academy
                        of Sciences. His dissertation was written under the direction of Dr Daniel Unowsky.
                     
                     
                     Dr Ivanes will soon be returning to the United States. He has been awarded a Fulbright
                        Fellowship to teach international broadcasting and conduct research at Western Illinois
                        University between August 2015 and February 2016. 
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Department of History has retirement reception for Dr Walter R. Brown
                     
                     
                     
                     [30 April 2015]  After being honored yesterday by the College of Arts and Sciences, Dr Walter R. “Bob”
                        Brown was further honored this afternoon by the Department of History, where he has
                        taught for fifty years. Fellow faculty members, students, former students, and friends
                        joined him in the lobby of Mitchell Hall for a reception.
                     
                     
                     After welcoming guests, departmental chair Dr Aram Goudsouzian read excerpts from
                        emails sent to the department by current and former students. He noted that Dr Brown
                        was a scholar of the decorative arts and material culture in early modern Europe,
                        an expertise reflected by his contributions to the Memphis Brooks Museum of Art, where
                        he has long served as an Adjunct Curator of the Decorative Arts. He has directed many
                        graduate students whose research focused on early modern Europe.
                     
                     
                     Dr Brown was a strong supporter of the honors program and won the Distinguished Teaching
                        Award several times. For most of his years at the university he was Director of Undergraduate
                        Studies and the Director of Advising. For several decades he and Dr Kell F. Mitchell
                        were responsible for all advising of history majors.
                     
                     
                     He advised literally thousands of students, and those students have applied to the
                        wider world the skills of critical thinking, written and oral expression,  and knowledge
                        of culture and values that they learned in his classes. For this reason, beginning
                        next year at the annual departmental awards banquet, the department will recognize
                        a graduate from our department who has gone on to make a wider mark on the world.
                        A modest donation will be given to the honorees' charity of choice, and the award
                        will be known, appropriately, as the Bob Brown Award.
                     
                     
                     Following his introduction, Dr Goudsouzian invited persons to the podium to share
                        their thoughts, memories, and tributes. Numerous persons responded: Current and former
                        colleagues in the department Dr Robert Frankle, Dr Beverly Bond, Dr Charles Crawford,
                        Dr Peter Brand, Dr Sarah Potter, Dr Daniel Unowsky, Dr Jonathan Judaken, Reva Kriegel,
                        Dr Glenn Ramsey, Dr Maurice Crouse, Dr James Fickle, and Dr Beverly Tsacoyanis; former
                        students Cathy Powers Dice, Dr Mike Halliburton, and Dr Horace Houston; and current
                        student Amber Colvin.
                     
                     
                     A point of interest is that Dr Bond, as an undergraduate student, was one of the first
                        students that Dr Brown ever had, and Amber Colvin is currently finishing her dissertation
                        under his direction. Dr Brand and Dr Ramsey, now colleagues, were also students of
                        Dr Brown earlier in their careers.
                     
                     
                     Selected photos below show Dr Brown listening to the tributes made by Dr Frankle,
                        Dr Bond, Ms Dice, Ms Kriegel, and Ms Colvin.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     After the official ceremony, those who had been students of Dr Brown gathered for
                        a group photograph.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Dr Walter R. Brown honored at College of Arts and Sciences retirees ceremony
                     
                     
                     
                     [29 April 2015]  Dr Walter R. “Bob” Brown was one of twelve persons retiring from the faculty honored
                        this afternoon by the College of Arts and Sciences at a ceremony in the University
                        Center.
                     
                     
                     He is shown with Dr Scott Marler (above, left), who spoke briefly about Dr Brown's
                        contributions to the department, college, and university, and Dr Tom Nenon (above,
                        right), Dean of the College, after receiving the plaque honoring his service, which
                        he received after speaking briefly in acknowledgement of the tribute.
                     
                     
                     Dr Brown came to the department in 1965. He taught French history and honors sections
                        of World Civilizations and was Undergraduate Coordinator and academic advisor to history
                        majors for several decades.
                     
                     
                     The Department of History will honor him again tomorrow (29 April) at a reception
                        to be held in the lobby of Mitchell Hall, home of the Department of History, from
                        1 until 3 pm.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                     Dr Susan O'Donovan participates in panel on emancipation following the Civil War
                     
                     [27 April 2015]  In a panel discussion at Rhodes College this afternoon, moderated by Dr Charles McKinney,
                        Dr Susan O'Donovan and Dr Tim Huebner, chair of the Department of History at Rhodes,
                        discussed the topic "Emancipation and the End of the American Civil War: What did
                        it mean? Why did it matter?"
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Lillian Page wins Dean's Award for Outstanding Undergraduate Student
                     
                     
                     
                     [26 April 2015]  Senior undergraduate Lillian Page received the College of Arts and Sciences Dean's
                        Awqard for Outstanding Undergraduate Student at the University Honors Assembly held
                        this afternoon.
                     
                     
                     She also was recognized for her departmental honors, including the Major L. Wilson
                        Undergraduate Paper Prize and the Tennessee Historical Commission Award for the highest
                        GPA as a history major, awards which were made at the History Honors Banquet on 10 April , and her membership in Phi Alpha Theta, the national honorary society for history
                        students. She has served as a docent at a historical house and as an intern for Women's
                        History Month.
                     
                     
                     Ms Page's GPA is 4.0 in history and 3.99 overall. The university's grading scale assigns weights of 4.0 to both A and A+ grades, and her GPA would have exceeded 4.0
                        if A+ grades had been weighted higher. In addition to having a major in history, Ms
                        Page had double minors in Spanish and Women's Studies.
                     
                     
                     The paper that won the Wilson award was entitled "'We Did What We Had to Do': Polish
                        Women and Solidarity." Evaluators of her writing called her a "crisp writer, intellectually
                        sophisticated" and noted her "dedication to immersing herself in historical documents
                        and analyzing them."
                     
                     
                     The Dean's Award for Outstanding Undergraduate Student is presented to a student who
                        has displayed outstanding academic achievement, as well as strong leadership, character,
                        scholarship, and contribution to department and campus activities.
                     
                     
                     Ms Page was nominated for the award by Dr Chrystal Goudsouzian and received additional
                        letters of support from Dr Walter R. Brown, Dr Sarah Potter, and Dr Beverly Tsacoyanis.
                        She is shown above, after having received the award, with Dean Tom Nenon; Dr Brown
                        appears in the background. At the left she is shown just after she received the plaque;
                        the screen displays a brief statement about her, including her plan to achieve a PhD
                        in the study of women's history, and lists the departmental awards she has received.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Taylor Richardson receives Outstanding Alumnus Award from Arts and Sciences chapter
                        of the Alumni Association
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     [24 April 2015]  The College of Arts and Sciences chapter of the Alumni Association conveyed several
                        Outstanding Alumni Awards and a Friend of the College Award this afternoon at a luncheon.
                        Among them was Taylor Richardson, who graduated in 1962 as a history major. He is
                        shown above (center) with others who were honored (Dean Tom Nenon stands proudly behind
                        them). He is also shown below with Dr Aram Goudsouzian, chair of the Department of
                        History.
                     
                     
                     Mr Richardson worked for a variety of Fortune 500 companies. He has been president
                        of the University of Memphis Foundation and the Highland Hundred and has served on
                        the university's Board of Visitors. He received the university's Distinguished Alumni
                        Award in 1997. He and his wife Mary Beth, who has an MA in anthropology from the university,
                        have been generous supporters of the university, with an annual scholarship for students
                        from their native Lake County, Tennessee. Recently they made a gift for the History
                        Educational Resource Center, which opened in  August 2014  in Mitchell Hall.
                     
                     
                       
                     
                     Dr Dennis Laumann and Dr Andrew Daily receive Faculty Research Grants
                     
                     [22 April 2015]  The university today announced fifteen recipients of Faculty Research Grants for
                        2015. Two of the grants are to members of the Department of History: Dr Dennis Laumann
                        and Dr Andrew Daily.
                     
                     
                     Dr Daily will use his funds for the final research on his project After Negritude: T he Cultural Politics of Place in Postwar France and the Antilles . Dr Laumann's award will support his new project, to be co-authored with Dr Kofi
                        Baku of the University of Ghana, entitled A History of Ghana in the World . 
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Dr Suzanne Onstine delivers Legacy of Egypt lecture
                     
                     
                     [17 April 2015]  Speaking on "A Living Legacy: Theban Tomb 16 and the Reuse of the Tombs of the Nobles
                        at Thebes," Dr Suzanne Onstine delivered the twelfth annual Legacy of Egypt lecture this evening. 
                     
                     
                     Theban Tomb 16 began in the 19th Dynasty as the tomb of Pa-nehsy and his wife Ta-renut
                        but was used for about a thousand years thereafter as burial sites for others, and
                        in modern times was invaded by tomb robbers in search of valuable metals or objects
                        that could be sold. 
                     
                     
                     Dr Onstine has been responsible for excavations of Theban Tomb 16 since 2008 and regularly
                        takes Egyptology graduate students to do work there. A detailed report of the 2012-2013
                        season may be found in the  departmental newsletter for September 2013  and a report from the 2014-2015 season our article of 22 January 2015 . Dr Onstine also has a blog about Theban Tomb 16 .
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Three doctoral students present their prospectuses for dissertations
                     
                     [17 April 2015]  All the prospectuses for dissertations presented this afternoon centered various
                        aspects of the history of Memphis. Rita Hall (below, left) began with "The Memphis
                        Zoo: From Natch to Now"; Vanessa Welshans (below, center) made a presentation on "The
                        Home Front in Memphis, Tennessee: Before, During, and After World War II, 1941-1945";
                        and Wendy Clark (below, right) concluded with "Currents of Change: The Relationship
                        between Memphians and the Mississippi River, 1820-1880."
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Wendi Thomas writes about Study Abroad trip to Cuba led by Dr Dennis Laumann
                     
                     [16 April 2015] Wendi Thomas, a former columnist for the Commercial Appeal , now writes for the Memphis Flyer . Today's issue has as its cover story Cuba, Si! , which tells of her visit to Cuba when she accompanied a Study Abroad trip during
                        March led by Dr Dennis Laumann.
                     
                     
                     Ms Thomas writes about her experience at length, in sections dedicated to cars, cigars,
                        cuisine, art, and history. The cars were mostly 1950s-vintage and described as "museums
                        on wheels" because the only original parts were the bodies, and owners and drivers
                        had to be magicians to keep them going. There is a photograph of Dr Laumann smoking
                        one of the hand-rolled cigars for which Cuba is famous (reproduced here with the permission
                        of Ms Thomas).
                     
                     
                     Ms Thomas was highly impressed with the quality of Cuban rum ("the smoothest rum I've
                        ever tasted") and coffee, but found the food, with rare exceptions, disappointing. The
                        section on art described and illustrated many found objects (such as bathtubs inscribed
                        with political poems) in the alley of the Callejón de Hamel, devoted to Afro-Cuban
                        culture, art, and music. 
                     
                     
                     
                     She reported that the travelers were most impressed with the Museo Nacional de la
                        Campaña Alfabetización, the national literacy museum (the group's bus driver had,
                        as a young man, been a volunteer worker for the museum). The adult illiteracy rate
                        in Cuba today is reported to be less than 0.2% — the corresponding rate for the U.S.
                        is 14%. (The photo of the museum is reproduced with the permission of Ms Thomas.)
                     
                     
                     The Memphis Flyer is a free publication and issues may be found at numerous locations in Memphis. The
                        entire current issue is available online  as a PDF document; the story is found on pages 19-23. The article alone is also available in HTML , and the photographs are larger in this version than in the PDF.
                     
                     
                     Dr Laumann had led a Study Abroad trip to Cuba during the winter break of 2012-2013
                        and wrote an article about it for the departmental newsletter for March 2013 . The trip that Ms Thomas wrote about was one of the first Memphis groups to visit
                        Cuba after President Obama announced that diplomatic relations between the U.S. and
                        Cuba would resume for the first time in more than fifty years.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Dr Peter Brand is one of twelve notable scholars in university's branding initiative
                     
                     [14 April 2015]  As part of the university's new branding initiative, it is featuring twelve notable
                        scholars on a series of banners on display on Central Avenue. Among them is our very
                        own Peter Brand.
                     
                     
                     Dr Brand is a Dunavant University Professor, an adjunct professor of the Institute of Egyptian Art and Architecture , and head of the epigraphy team that is recording inscriptions at the Karnak Great Hypostyle Hall in Luxor.
                     
                     
                     Another part of the branding initiative was the placement of an electronic billboard
                        about the Department of History at the intersection of Poplar Avenue and White Station
                        Road ( see our article of 3 March 2015 ).
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                     West Tennessee History Day students win further honors at Tennessee History Day
                     
                     [13 April 2015]  Middle-school and high-school students who won first or second place in West Tennessee
                        History Day competition, held here on 21 February 2015 , advanced to the statewide competition in Nashville on Saturday, and eight projects
                        placed third, three placed second, and four placed first. No district in the state
                        exceeded that total of prize winners. First- and second-place finishers now advance
                        automatically to the national contest, which takes place in June at the University
                        of Maryland-College Park. Third-place finishers are the alternates.
                     
                     
                     [ADDENDUM: 16 April 2015]  Tre Hargett, Tennessee Secretary of State, has long been a strong supporter of Tennessee
                        History Day. Today he published a complete list of the winners of the state competition in Nashville .
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Department has banquet for Phi Alpha Theta induction and departmental awards
                     
                     
                     
                     [10 April 2015] Dr Laurie Green, associate professor of history at the University of Texas-Austin,
                        spoke on "From Mississippi to Memphis: Racial Injustice and the Politics of Hunger
                        in the Era of the Sanitation Strike" today at the annual Phi Alpha Theta induction
                        and Department of History honors awards. Dr Green won the 2008 Philip Taft Labor History
                        Book Award for her book  Battling the Plantation Mentality: Memphis and the Black Freedom Struggle .
                     
                     
                     Following Dr Green's lecture Dr Andrew Daily and Amanda Lee Savage, faculty advisors,
                        and Tannie Arnsdorf, secretary, conducted the induction ceremony for new members of
                        Phi Alpha Theta, the national honorary organization for history. The new members are
                        Victoria Dowdy, Seth Harden, Jerry Venable, Cody Lee Fletcher, Roy Smith II, Katherine
                        Mary Hanna, Brad A. Baird II, Justin Pickard, Allison Maria Heirigs, Derek Copper,
                        Taylor Hopkins, Benjamin J. Woodford, Kyle Holley, Allison Benoit, Samantha Traylor,
                        Janet Towater Wickers, Chloe Gabrielle Russell, Aragon C. Etzel, and Allen Bowers.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Dr Aram Goudsouzian, chair of the department, assisted by Amanda Lee Savage, presided
                        over the awards to undergraduate and graduate students.
                     
                     
                     The award recipients for 2014-2015 were:
                     
                     
                        
                        Bob Baker Scholarship: Jennifer Amber Humes, Steven Turner
                        
                        Belle McWilliams Scholarship: Seth Andrew Harden, Grace White
                        
                        Janann M. Sherman Undergraduate Award for the Study of Women's History: Allison Amanda
                           Benoit
                        
                        
                        Paul R. Coppock Scholarship: Jeremy Stitts
                        
                        Tennessee Historical Commission Award: Lillian Gardner Page
                        
                        Major L. Wilson Undergraduate Paper Prize: Lillian Gardner Page
                        
                        Major L. Wilson Graduate Paper Prize: Scott Roth
                        
                        Internship: Angela Jean Porritt
                        
                        National Society of Colonial Dames of America in the State of Tennessee American History
                           Scholarship 2015: Troy Hallsell
                        
                        
                        Most Outstanding Graduate Assistant Instructor: Dustin Peasley
                        
                        Most Outstanding Part-Time Instructor Award: Dr Rachel Mittelman
                        
                     
                     
                     The award recipients of 2015-2016 were:
                     
                     
                        
                        Dr Dalvan M. Coger and Dr Greta M. Coger Fellowship in History: Genevieve AnnMarie
                           Donovan
                        
                        
                        Ruth and Harry Woodbury Graduate Fellowship for the Study of Southern History: Troy
                           Hallsell
                        
                        
                        Dr Peggy Jemison Bodine Fellowship: Maria R. Carlenius
                        
                        Dr William R. and Helen Lucile Gillaspie Scholarship: Isabel Machado
                        
                        One-Year Dissertation Fellowship: Micki Yvonne Kaleta
                        
                        Semester Dissertation Writing Fellowship: Wendy J. Clark (Fall 2015), Amber Anna Colvin
                           (Spring 2016)
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Some of the recipients of awards are shown below. First row: Jeremy Stitts, Lillian
                        Page; second row: Troy Hallsell, Genevieve Donovan; third row: Isabel Machado, MIcki
                        Kaleta
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Following the banquet, Dr Green met with students in the History Educational Resource
                        Center for informal discussion.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Graduate students awarded funding for research and conferences for summer 2015
                     
                     [9 April 2015] The Graduate Awards Committee is pleased to announce the recipients of Summer 2015
                        research and conference funding: 
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           Wendy Clark, research in Nashville
                           
                           Jeffery Jones, research in Pennsylvania
                           
                           Andrea Ringer, research in New York
                           
                           Isabel Machado Wildberger, research in Mobile, Alabama, and institute participation
                              in Berkeley, California
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                         
                        
                     
                     
                     Dr Daryl Carter receives research grant and service award
                     
                     [1 April 2015]  The Dirksen Congressional Center in Pekin, Illinois, has awarded Dr Daryl A. Carter, associate professor of history
                        and graduate coordinator of the Department of History at East Tennessee University,
                        a grant of $3,500 at the Howard H. Baker Jr. Center for Public Policy at The University of Tennessee-Knoxville for research in the late senator's papers.
                     
                     
                     He will also be honored with the Service Award of the College of Arts and Sciences
                        at East Tennessee at a faculty meeting later in April, and be recommended for the
                        University Service Award to be made in August.
                     
                     
                     Dr Carter received his PhD in history from The University of Memphis in May 2011 under
                        the direction of Dr Aram Goudsouzian, completing a dissertation entitled "President
                        Bill Clinton, African Americans, and the Politics of Race and Class." In 2013, he
                        was named as a Maxine Smith Fellow by the Tennessee Board of Regents.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Dr Beverly Bond is keynote speaker for concluding event in Women's History Month
                     
                     [31 March 2015]  Women's History Month 2015 at The University of Memphis ended, as it had begun , with extensive participation by members of the Department of History. Dr Beverly
                        Bond was the keynote speaker for the event, and Dr Christine Eisel introduced the
                        portion on "Weaving Women's Stories" near its conclusion.
                     
                     
                     The opening highlight was Campus School student Abigail Kellett reading her illustrated
                        story of Deborah Sampson (later Gannett), who disguised herself as a man so that she
                        could enlist in the Continental Army. While she read, her story was displayed on the
                        screen so that the audience could see her text and illustrations. The picture  at
                        the right shows the page on which she discussed Paul Revere's support of Deborah Sampson's
                        petition to be awarded a pension for her service.
                     
                     
                     During her keynote address Dr Bond spoke about three Tennessee women who are the subjects
                        of essays in the two volumes that she and Dr Sarah Wilkerson Freeman have edited.
                        While she told the stories of the women, three dancers —Jill Nee, Trinica Goods, and
                        Angelina Cearra Clark, under the direction of Jazmin Miller — interpreted the stories.
                        Dr Bond concluded her address with a tribute to her aunt, Mrs. Jeraldine Sanderlin,
                        whom she described as the "matriarch" of the family and who celebrated her 85th birthday
                        this month.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     The first volume of Tennessee Women: Their Lives and Times was published in 2009 and the second volume will be released in July 2015. Both are
                        under the imprint of the University of Georgia Press (images of both volumes are shown
                        above at the base of the podium).
                     
                     
                     
                     The full texts of tributes to women in "Weaving Women's Stories" were printed in the
                        program for the event. During the portion of the event introduced by Dr Eisel the
                        names of the honorees were displayed on a screen along with three words chosen to
                        summarize the printed tributes. Shown at the left is the visual tribute to our former
                        chair, Dr Janann Sherman. Several women from the Department of History were honored
                        along with Dr Sherman, and several members of the department paid tribute to others.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Dr Danielle McGuire delivers Belle McWilliams Lecture in U.S. History
                     
                     [26 March 2015]  Dr Danielle McGuire, assistant professor of history at Wayne State University, delivered
                        the Belle McWilliams Lecture in U.S. History for 2014-2015 this evening, speaking
                        on the topic "To Gain Title to Our Bodies: Black Women and the Long Civil Rights Movement." The
                        lecture was based on her book  At the Dark End of the Street: Black Women, Rape and Resistance—A New History of the
                           Civil Rights Movement from Rosa Parks to the Rise of Black Power,  published by Knopf in 2010 and issued as a Vintage paperback in 2011. The lecture
                        was also an event of the  Marcus W. Orr Center for the Humanities , co-sponsored by the Center for Research on Women, African and African American Studies,
                        and the Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change.
                     
                     
                     Dr McGuire's lecture both began and ended with stories about Recy Taylor, a black
                        woman from Abbeville, Alabama, who in 1944 was kidnapped and gang-raped by a group
                        of white men. Assisting in a national protest movement, Rosa Parks made an investigation
                        for the NAACP and helped to establish a national protest movement named the Committee
                        for Equal Justice for Mrs. Recy Taylor.  The charges against the men were dismissed
                        after a jury deliberated for five minutes. This happened when Martin Luther King Jr.
                        was still in high school.
                     
                     
                     In 1949, in Montgomery, Alabama, charges of raping Gertude Perkins by two uniformed
                        policemen resulted in no indictment. But the incident had the effect of politicizing
                        black ministers such as Solomon Seay. In 1951 Sam Green, who ran a grocery store in
                        Montgomery, raped Gertrude Perkins, one of his employees. As part of the protest,
                        black women led a boycott that resulted in the closing of the store. Black women also
                        organized a bus boycott in protest against bus drivers' abuse of black passengers.
                        Montgomery was not unique. Protests of violence against black women occurred in other
                        places, but Dr McGuire did not give details of them.
                     
                     
                     So the familiar story of Rosa Parks beginning the protests because her feet were tired
                        was not the real beginning of the movement by black women to secure their rights,
                        Dr McGuire stated. Violence against black women, particularly sexual violence, had
                        its roots in the colonial period when laws and customs regarded the children of slave
                        women as slaves and prohibited interracial marriage while permitting sexual exploitation
                        of black women by white men.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     During Reconstruction, claims that black men were raping white women led to many lynchings
                        of black men, fueled by the image of the "black beast rapist," and white southern
                        political leaders of later generations claimed that integrationists were really interested
                        in miscegenation or amalgamation of the races. One was quoted as saying, "They don't
                        want rights. They want your women."
                     
                     
                     The conviction and sentencing of white men in 1959 for raping Betty Jean Owens in
                        Tallahassee, Florida, was a real milestone for black women. It was followed by similar
                        convictions in North Carolina, Alabama, South Carolina, and Mississippi. The overturning
                        by the Supreme Court in 1967 in Loving v. Virginia of laws forbidding interracial marriage removed the last vestige of slavery to fall,
                        Dr McGuire said.
                     
                     
                     The trial in Washington, North Carolina, in 1974 of Joan Little on charges of first-degree
                        murder involved the issue of whether black women could use violence themselves to
                        guard against sexual assault. She was accused of being a "black Jezebel" who enticed
                        a white jailer to have sex with her and then killing him with an ice pick that she
                        had smuggled into her cell. Rosa Parks, who had moved to Detroit shortly after the
                        bus boycott in Montgomery, was part of a protest movement. The jury unanimously acquitted
                        Ms Little of the charges, accepting her account that she had managed to wrestle the
                        ice pick away from the jailer who was demanding sexual favors and threatening her
                        with death if she did not oblige. 
                     
                     
                     Dr McGuire ended the formal part of her lecture by noting that she had met with Recy
                        Taylor on Inauguration Day in 2011. She asked Ms Taylor if she had ever thought a
                        black man could be elected president of the United States. "Not in my lifetime," Ms
                        Taylor had replied. In May 2011 the Alabama House of Representatives apologized for
                        the state's failure to prosecute the men charged with her rape in 1944, and several
                        Abbeville leaders also apologized. Ms Taylor said that she had not expected that to
                        happen either. Later in the year she visited the White House and attended a forum
                        on Rosa Parks.
                     
                     
                     Dr McGuire's book in 2011 won the Lillian Smith Book Award from the Southern Regional
                        Council and the Frederick Jackson Turner Book Award from the  Organization of American
                        Historians. It also received honorable mention for the Darlene Clark Hine Book Award
                        of the OAH.
                     
                     
                     The Belle McWilliams Lecture Series began in 1980 with a bequest from Major Benjamin Schultze and his sister Ms Louise
                        Fellows. They named the fund in honor of Miss Belle McWilliams, their aunt and guardian,
                        "who for 40 years taught American History in the Memphis Public School system." Besides
                        the lecture series, the fund supports the Belle McWilliams Scholarships and other
                        activities of the department.
                     
                     
                     [ADDENDUM: 27 March 2015]  As a bonus, Dr McGuire chatted informally with students and faculty members in the
                        History Educational Resource Center this afternoon.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Harvard University Press to release Dr Catherine Phipps' book on Japanese ports in
                        early April
                     
                     
                     [23 March 2015]  Dr Catherine Phipps' book, Empire on the Waterfront: Japan's Ports and Power, 1858-1899 , will be published on 6 April 2015 by Harvard University Press in its Harvard East
                        Asian Monographs series. It is available now for pre-order from the press and commercial
                        bookstores.
                     
                     
                     Through an in-depth assessment of the port of Moji in northern Kyushu, this study
                        examines a largely unacknowledged system of "special trading ports" that operated
                        under full Japanese jurisdiction in the shadow of the better-known treaty ports. By
                        allowing Japan to circumvent conditions imposed on treaty ports, the special trading
                        ports were key to achieving autonomy and regional power.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Gawker publishes Dr Chris Johnson's essay, "The Unauthorized Biography of a Black Cop"
                     
                     
                     [23 March 2015]  The blog Gawker  publishes several sections, one of which is True Stories , devoted to first-person accounts of real-life events, published on Saturdays. This
                        weekend it featured an essay by Dr Chris Johnson entitled  "The Unauthorized Biography of a Black Cop."
                     
                     This is the story of the remarkable man he identifies only as "Dad" (he gives the
                        name of only one person in the entire essay), who worked as a prison guard and police
                        officer in New York, whom he characterizes as "my uncle by blood, my guardian, my
                        hero and my archenemy, the man who took me in when everyone else wanted to flush me
                        down the toilet" and later in the essay as "my blood uncle—my futurefather—now my
                        father, my only father, and for most of my life, my father and mother and sometime-friend."
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Dr Sarah Potter wins Distinguished Teaching Award from the Alumni Association
                     
                     
                     
                     [20 March 2015]  The Department of History has another winner of the Alumni Association's Distinguished
                        Teaching Award, with Dr Sarah Potter being announced today as one of the four faculty
                        members at The University of Memphis to receive the award for this year at a luncheon
                        for them and their guests to be held in April.
                     
                     
                     No details at available at this time. We will add further information as it becomes
                        available.
                     
                     
                     [ADDENDUM: 14 April 2015]: No further information was ever made public. Dr Potter received the award at a luncheon
                        held today in the Center View Room of the University Center, according to a news item on the university's website .
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Dr Beverly Tsacoyanis speaks at Phi Alpha Theta pizza lunch
                     
                     [20 March 2015]  Dr Beverly Tsacoyanis spoke this afternoon at the Spring 2015 Phi Alpha Theta pizza
                        lunch, presenting information about mental illness and treatment in early twentieth-century
                        Syria and Lebanon, the subject of her dissertation at Washington University in Saint
                        Louis and for which she is preparing a book-length monograph.
                     
                     
                     Her sources — drawn from medical records, correspondence, and ethnographic studies
                        from the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, and centered around the Ibn
                        Sina Hospital in Damascus and the Lebanon Hospital for the Insane at Asfouriyeh, near
                        Beirut — revealed that practitioners of a variety of healing systems operated in contested spaces.
                        Most ordinary people of the time preferred to turn to local practices that imbued
                        healing with religiously and culturally significant meaning (in Christian and Jewish
                        as well as Muslim communities). While western-trained doctors insisted that insanity
                        was a physical disease, many persons in the community believed that it and other diseases
                        could be caused by evil spirits (and cured by good spirits). Moreover, doctors were
                        in the public mind often regarded as unwelcome agents of Westernization and as Protestant
                        proselytizers.
                     
                     
                     In past years the pizza lunches have generally been held in the auditorium of Mitchell
                        Hall, but this session was held in the more informal setting of the History Educational
                        Resource Center (the HERC) in 147 Mitchell Hall.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Dr Sarah Potter facilitates discussion of book by Dr Danielle McGuire at CROW Book
                        Salon
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     [18 March 2015]  As part of this year's Women's History Month at The University of Memphis, Dr Danielle
                        McGuire will lecture in the Belle McWilliams Lecture Series on  26 March  on "To Gain Title to Our Bodies: Black Women and the Long Civil Rights Movement," based on
                        her book  At the Dark End of the Street: Black Women, Rape, and Resistance .
                     
                     
                     This afternoon in a Book Salon sponsored by the Center for Research on Women, and
                        also an event of Women's History Month, Dr Sarah Potter was the facilitator for discussion
                        of selected portions of the book. 
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Dr Janann Sherman interviewed in documentary about the women's national air derby
                        of 1929
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     [17 March 2015]  Phoebe Omlie was one of the twenty women who competed in August 1929 in the first
                        women's national air derby (dubbed the "Powder Puff Derby" by Will Rogers). Dr Janann
                        Sherman, our former chair (now retired), is the expert on Phoebe Omlie, having published  Walking on Air: The Aerial Adventures of Phoebe Omlie  in 2011 and having helped James Kakarides in the  campaign to get the new control tower at Memphis International Airport named for Phoebe
                           and her husband Vernon .
                     
                     
                     Dr Sherman appeared this morning on WKNO2 in a documentary by Heather Taylor, speaking
                        about Phoebe Omlie, along with others speaking about other participants in the derby.
                        The documentary, entitled Breaking Through the Clouds: The First Women's National Air Derby , received the Combs Gates Award from the National Aviation Hall of Fame and yesterday
                        received an award for best historical feature film at the Gutsy Gals Inspire Me Film
                        Festival. It is being shown by PBS affiliates nationwide at various times and is available
                        as a DVD.
                     
                     
                     Phoebe Omlie was recently inducted into the Women In Aviation Pioneer Hall of Fame.
                        Dr Sherman wrote a brief article about her for the organization's newsletter .
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Dr Aram Goudsouzian's book on the Meredith march wins McLemore Prize from the Mississippi
                        Historical Society
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     [10 March 2015]  Dr Aram Goudsouzian's book Down to the Crossroads: Civil Rights, Black Power, and the Meredith March Against
                           Fear  won the McLemore Book Prize from the Mississippi Historical Society this past weekend
                        as the most distinguished scholarly book on a topic in Mississippi history or biography
                        published in 2014. The photo shows him accepting the award from Dr Robert Fleegler,
                        a historian at the University of Mississsippi-Southaven and a member of the Book Award
                        Committee. The presentation was made at a meeting of the Mississippi Historical Society
                        in Corinth over the weekend.
                     
                     
                     The McLemore Prize memorializes Richard A. McLemore, former president of the Mississippi
                        Historical Society and former director of the Mississippi Department of Archives and
                        History, and his wife, Nannie Pitts McLemore, also a former president of the Society.
                        In addition to the certificate shown above, the prize carries a monetary award.
                     
                     
                     The book was published by Farrar, Straus and Giroux in February 2014 and has received
                        numerous favorable reviews. For more information about it, including extracts from the reviews , visit the website for the book  and read the interview with Dr Goudsouzian in the February 2014 issue of the departmental newsletter, History Happenings .
                     
                     
                       
                     
                     Department of History participates in official opening event of Women's History Month
                     
                     
                     
                     [4 March 2015]  Women's History Month at The University of Memphis opened officially this morning
                        and continued into the afternoon in the atrium of the University Center with extensive
                        participation by the Department of History. Dr Chrystal Goudsouzian organized the
                        event. The second level of the atrium was decorated with the artwork created by student
                        Meredith Lones (shown above).
                     
                     
                     One of the principal exhibits (shown below) on Weaving the Stories of Women's Lives
                        invited visitors to write remarks to complete the expression "Women's Lives Matter
                        Because . . ." (The Facebook page for the event  has photos of many of those who participated.) Various organizations set up booths
                        to promote their activities; one of them (shown below) was selling teeshirts. 
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                               
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Volume co-edited by Dr Susan O'Donovan wins award for documentary editing
                     
                     [4 March 2015]   The Freedmen and Southern Society Project was established in 1976 to capture the essence of the profound social revolution
                        effected by emancipation by depicting the drama of emancipation in the words of the
                        participants: liberated slaves and defeated slaveholders, soldiers and civilians,
                        common folk and the elite, Northerners and Southerners.
                     
                     
                     The project's editors have been transcribing, organizing, and annotating resources
                        from the National Archives of the United States and to date have published six of
                        the projected nine volumes of Freedom: A Documentary History of Emancipation, 1861–1867. (Four volumes prepared for general readers and classroom use have also been published.)
                     
                     
                     Susan O'Donovan is one of the editors. The volume Land and Labor, 1866–1867 , one on which Dr O'Donovan worked, has won the 2015 Thomas Jefferson Prize from the
                        Society for History in the Federal Government . The prize is awarded every two years for documentary editing. It is the fourth of
                        the six volumes in the series to win this prestigious honor.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Dr Christine Eisel speaks at opening of Libraries' exhibition
                     
                     [3 March 2015]  Dr Christine Eisel spoke this evening at the opening of the University of Memphis
                        Libraries' exhibition "Woven Into Words: Tennessee Women Making History." Her presentation
                        was  "Lessons Learned in the Archives" and dealt with the online women's history project
                        her students are building using the Libraries' special collections.
                     
                     
                     The exhibition, held on the fourth floor of McWherter Library, consists of documents
                        and images from the University Libraries' departments of Special Collections and Government
                        Publications. Guests can explore several display cases that illustrate the impact
                        of women such as Roberta Church, Elizabeth Meriwether, Sister Hughetta Snowden, Cornelia
                        Crenshaw, and Maxine Smith, and highlight government documents relating to women's
                        suffrage and political history.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     University billboard advertises the Department of History
                     
                     
                     
                     [3 March 2015]  The University of Memphis has erected an electronic billboard at Poplar Avenue and
                        White Station Road that advertises the Department of History. The billboard contains
                        the new branding symbol for the university in the lower right-hand corner.
                     
                     
                     The intersection is heavily traveled. Poplar Avenue is also U.S. route 72 and Tennessee
                        route 57 and is one of the main east-west streets in the city, and White Station Road
                        is one of the main north-south streets in east Memphis.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Dr Aram Goudsouzian leads viewing and discussion of Freedom Riders
                     
                     [25 February 2015]  Dr Aram Goudsouzian led a discussion this evening at the National Civil Rights Museum
                        of the documentary  Freedom Riders  in connection with Created Equal: America's Civil Rights Struggle. This was part
                        of a series of scholar-led film viewings and dicussions. The documentary dealt with
                        the Freedom Rides of 1961 that were a pivotal moment in the long civil rights struggle
                        that redefined America. Based on Raymond Arsenault's recent book, it offers an inside
                        look at the brave band of activists who challenged segregation in the Deep South.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Dr William Campbell speaks in Humanities Brown Bag Series for faculty
                     
                     [24 February 2015] Dr William Campbell spoke this afternoon in the Humanities Brown Bag Series for faculty
                        sponsored by the Marcus W. Orr Center for the Humanities. His topic was "The Legalities
                        of Exploitation: Treaty-Making in Native America," how the protocols and precedents
                        established by negotiations immediately following the American Revolution remain important
                        to rulings and arguments today. Dr Campbell is under contract by the National Parks
                        Service to revisit and reinterpret the terms and means of a number of late-eighteenth-century
                        treaties, Dr. Campbell will explore some of these themes and aspects as he discusses
                        most recent research.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Department publishes February 2015 issue of History Happenings newsletter
                     
                     
                     [24 February 2015]  The February 2015 issue of  History Happenings , the newsletter of the Department of History, is now  online as a PDF document . 
                     
                     The issue contains the following articles:
                     
                     
                        
                        Title page, illustrating the Antoura Orphanage
                        
                        Interview with Dr Sarah Potter on adoption in postwar America
                        
                        Dr Aram Goudsouzian on Goodbye, Antoura
                        
                        Dr Andrew Daily on postwar French racism
                        
                        Andrea L. Ringer on the 16th Annual Graduate Conference in African-American History
                        
                        Dr K. T. Ewing on Alberta Hunter
                        
                        Dr Andrew Daily and Amanda Lee Savage on Phi Alpha Theta activities
                        
                        Dr Sarah Potter on  "tuning" the Department of History's undergraduate program
                        
                        Dr Chrystal Goudsouzian on Clio's Closet
                        
                        Dr Beverly Tsacoyanis on loving the Greek language
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                       Department hosts largest West Tennessee History Day ever
                     
                     
                     [21 February 2015]  The weather was a worrisome factor all week, since The University of Memphis had
                        closed for four days, including yesterday, because of snow and ice. Today was a rather
                        unpleasant day also, with a cold, blowing rain but the front that moved through the
                        area during the early morning hours brought enough warmth with it to melt most of
                        the ice and snow and allow West Tennessee History Day to proceed today as scheduled,
                        in the University Center, Mitchell Hall, and the Michael Rose Theatre.
                     
                     
                     Dr Susan O'Donovan reported that it was the largest West Tennessee Day ever, with
                        421 students involved in various projects such as written papers, websites, documentaries,
                        performances, and exhibits. Judging, which was done by volunteers from the university
                        and the community, began at 9 o'clock and concluded shortly before the awards ceremony
                        at 3 pm in the auditorium of the University Center. Dr O'Donovan called on Shelby
                        County Historian Jimmy Ogle to make introductory remarks and to introduce Dr Curt
                        Fields, chairman of the Shelby County Historical Commission. (Mr Ogle remarked that
                        Dr Fields often plays the role of General U. S. Grant in Civil War reenactments.)They
                        were joined shortly by Shelby County Mayor Mark Luttrell and Dr Aram Goudsouzian,
                        chair of the Department of History, who helped to distribute medals to the winners.
                     
                     
                     It was not only students who received honors. The Shelby County Historical Society
                        makes an annual award (named in honor of Ed Williams, a former Shelby County Historian)
                        to a "teacher of the year." The recipient this year (in absentia) was Dr Mark Janzen,
                        one of our PhD alumni in Egyptology from 2013 and who now teaches U.S. history, world
                        history, and advanced placement U.S. history at First Assembly Christian School.
                     
                     
                     Students who won first- and second-place prizes in today's competition are eligible
                        to participate in Tennessee History Day to be held in Nashville on 11 April 2015,
                        and third-place winners are alternates. In addition, first-place winners will be further
                        honored at an awards ceremony to be held by the Shelby County Historical Commission
                        on 5 August. Here are some of the winners receiving their medals:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     At the conclusion of the awards Mayor Luttrell, who had been a history major himself,
                        exhorted the students to continue their pursuit of historical knowledge. To judge
                        from the number of persons who attended the events and packed the auditorium to near-capacity,
                        he might be said to have been "preaching to the choir." Here are some of them on the
                        way out:
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Dr Susan O'Donovan leads viewing and discussion of The Abolitionists
                     
                       [19 February 2015]  Dr Susan O'Donovan led a discussion this evening at the Benjamin L. Hooks Central
                        Library of the documentary The Abolitionists in connection with Created Equal: America's Civil Rights Struggle. This was part
                        of a series of scholar-led film viewings and dicussions. The documentary dealt with
                        the struggles of the men and women to end slavery in the period before the Civil War.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Dr Beverly Bond leads viewing and discussion of The Loving Story
                     
                     [12 February 2015]  In the series of scholar-led film viewings and discussions in connection with Created
                        Equal: America's Civil Rights Struggle, Dr Beverly Bond this evening led discussion
                        of The Loving Story . The documentary dealt with the interracial marriage of Richard and MIldred Loving
                        in Virginia, the conviction under the state's law against miscegenation, and the unanimous
                        Supreme Court decision (1967) that led to the overturning of such laws throughout
                        the United States.
                     
                     
                     The event was held at the Benjamin L. Hooks Central Library.
                     
                      
                     
                     Jeffery Jones and Scott Frizzell present dissertation prospectuses
                     
                     [6 February 2015] Jeffery Jones and Scott Frizzell presented prospectuses for their dissertations this
                        afternoon at the first prospectus session of the Spring 2015 semester. Mr Jones (below
                        left) proposes a dissertation on General Benjamin O. Davis, the first black Army officer
                        to achieve the rank of general. Mr Frizzell (below right) will study busing and school
                        desegregation in Memphis, Tennessee.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Dr Sheena Harris speaks at opening event for Black History Month at LeMoyne-Owen
                     
                     [5 February 2015]  Dr Sheena Harris was the speaker Wednesday evening for the opening event in Black
                        History Month at LeMoyne-Owen College, speaking on the topic of how reality shows
                        like Real Housewives of Atlanta shape viewers' perceptions of African- Americans.
                     
                     
                     The perceptions are not very encouraging, according to Dr Harris, not very different
                        from the freak shows of the 19th century that presented the stereotype of black women
                        as "docile and subservient but also exotic and oversexualized." That image was so
                        prevalent that elite black women such as Ida B. Wells and Margaret Murray Washington
                        (the wife of Booker T. Washington) felt the responsibility of black elite women to
                        help in the uplifting of the race. Today, she maintained, those ideas are being overshadowed
                        by "the glitz and glam of rising popular culture." 
                     
                     
                     Dr Harris is a graduate of our PhD program, having received her degree in 2012 with
                        a dissertation on the life and times of Margaret Murray Washington, with Dr Beverly
                        Bond as major professor. She is now an assistant professor of history at Tuskegee
                        Institute.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Dr Aram Goudsouzian speaks about the Meredith March Against Fear at historical society
                        meeting
                     
                     
                     [2 February 2015]  At the February meeting of the West Tennessee Historical Society this evening, Dr
                        Aram Goudsouzian spoke on the theme of his book Down to the Crossroads: Civil Rights, Black Power, and the Meredith March Against
                           Fear.
                     
                      
                     
                     UofM faculty members to lead viewing and discussion of films for Created Equal: America's Civil Rights Struggle
                     
                     
                     
                     [30  January 2015] Dr Earnestine Jenkins, associate professor of art history, will join with Dr Beverly
                        Bond, Dr Susan O'Donovan, and Dr Aram Goudsouzian of the Department of History in
                        a series of film viewings and discussions during February in connection with Created Equal: America's Civil Rights Struggle , a project brought to Memphis by the National Endowment for the Humanities, The Gilder
                        Lehrman Institute of American History, and the American Library Association.
                     
                     
                     All the events will be held on Thursday evenings from 6 to 8 pm; two will be at the
                        National Civil Rights Museum and two will be at the Benjamin L. Hooks Central Library:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        5 February, National Civil Rights Museum:  Slavery by Another Name , led by Dr Jenkins
                        
                        
                        12 February, Meeting Rooms A-C, Benjamin L. Hooks Central Library:  The Loving Story , led by Dr Bond
                        
                        
                        19 February, Meeting Rooms A-C, Benjamin L. Hooks Central Library:  The Abolitionists , led by Dr O'Donovan
                        
                        
                        26 February, National Civil Rights Museum:  Freedom Riders , led by Dr Goudsouzian
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Theban Tomb 16 team reports on the current excavation season
                     
                     
                     
                     [22 January 2015] Dr Suzanne Onstine reports from Luxor, Egypt, that  having worked for three weeks  the team that is excavating Theban Tomb 16 has reached the halfway point in this
                              season's excavations. The 19th-Dynasty tomb is the burial site for Pahnesy and his
                              wife Tarenu, priest and priestess. Dr Onstine has been responsible for excavation
                              there since 2008 (a detailed report of the 2012-2013 season may be found in the departmental newsletter for September 2013 ).
                     
                     The physical anthropology team has analysed thousands of bones and has discovered
                        several lovely funerary objects like shabtis (funerary figures) and amulets. The rest of the burial equipment is in a very ruined
                        state—all the coffins and bodies were smashed into small pieces during the looting
                        of the tomb in the 20th century. The project, however, is happy with the amount of
                        data that can be secured from the broken remains, and all kinds of pathologies and
                        mummification techniques have been found.
                     
                     
                     The x-ray machine that was supposed to be used during this season is still sitting
                        in the Cairo airport awaiting customs clearance, so those investigations will have
                        to wait until a later season as the radiologist, Rosa Dinares, had to return to Spain
                        to her "real job." Dr Onstine remarked that the team is very fortunate to have specialists
                        like Rosa, Jesus Herrerin (physical anthropologist), and Miguel Sanchez (pathologist),
                        willing to devote their vacation days to research at TT16.  
                     
                     
                     The team was able to show off the tomb to the Karnak team in that team's final days
                        of work (see a report from the Karnak Hypostyle Hall Project earlier this month). A further update on TT16 is promised at the end of the season.
                     
                     
                     The large photograph above is of Dr Onstine explaining some information about the
                        tomb to a group of visitors. The small photograph at the left is of the Memphis team
                        members: Dustin Peasley, Dr Onstine, Virginia Reckard, and Elizabeth Warkentin (kneeling).
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Dr Darin Stephanov receives academic appointments in Finland
                     
                     [13 January 2015]  Dr Darin Stephanov has recently been named a post-doctoral researcher at the Academy
                        of Finland Project "Political Power in the Early Modern European and Islamic Worlds,"
                        and coordinator of the Nordic Exploratory Workshops "Eurasian Empires, Public Space/Sphere,
                        and Collective Identities at the Threshold of Modernity" at the University of Jyväskylä,
                        Finland.  He is the author of "Sultan Mahmud II (1808-1839) and the First Shift in
                        Modern Ruler Visibility in the Ottoman Empire," Journal of the Ottoman and Turkish Studies Association 1:1-2 (2014), among other articles.
                     
                     
                     Dr Stephanov received his PhD at The University of Memphis in 2012. His dissertation
                        was "Minorities, Majorities, and the Monarch: Nationalizing Effects of the Late Ottoman
                        Royal Public Ceremonies, 1808-1908," with Dr Kent Schull as major professor. While
                        a student he won one of the first-ever awards for making the best prospectus presentation.
                        He did postdoctoral research in Finland and was a Fellow at the Helsinki Collegium
                        for Advanced Studies during 2012-2014.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Dr Aram Goudsouzian participates in historians' assessments of President Obama's legacy
                     
                     [12 January 2015]  Dr Aram Goudsouzian was one of 53 historians chosen by New York magazine to make assessments of the legacy of Barack Obama. Each historian was asked
                        by respond to 15 questions. In its general article on the online site the magazine chose from the full assessments brief quotations that it found most
                        thought-provoking.
                     
                     
                     In the category "What We Will Remember?" it included Dr Goudsouzian's contention that
                        it would be the recent executive action on immigration: "According to one poll, almost
                        90 percent of registered Latino voters support the measure. The number of Hispanics
                        in the United States is projected to double by 2060, which means that one-third of
                        the nation's population will be Hispanic. Obama's executive action may not only help
                        stabilize the country's Latino population but also cement much of its loyalty to the
                        Democratic Party."
                     
                     
                     In the category "The Most Lasting Image?" it included Dr Goudsouzian's judgment that
                        it was  "When Joe Wilson yelled 'You lie!' during the 2009 State of the Union: a cheap, nasty,
                           and disrespectful moment and a depressing emblem of the era in which Obama has governed."
                     
                     The magazine published the complete text of all the responses in separate articles;
                        Dr Goudsouzian's response may be bound at  http://nymag.com/news/politics/obama-history-project/aram-goudsouzian/ . 
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Karnak Hypostyle Hall Project filmed by CNN for its series "Inside Africa"
                     
                     [1 January 2015]  CNN International recently visited Dr Peter Brand and his students who are working
                        on the field mission of the Karnak Hypostyle Hall Project in Luxor, Egypt, and did
                        extensive filming of the Hypostyle Hall for the first part of its weekly program "Inside
                        Africa" that is seen around the world.The crew spoke with doctoral student Andrew
                        Shilling and shot footage of him when he was upon the scaffolding recording inscriptions.
                     
                     
                     This part, which is narrated by CNN's Ian Lee and deals with the Nile as the lifeblood
                        of Egypt's civilization and concentrates on the ancient capital at Thebes (modern
                        Luxor), has been posted to the Internet at http://edition.cnn.com/video/data/2.0/video/international/2014/12/29/spc-inside-africa-egypt-nile-river-a.cnn.html . Beginning at about 3:08, the show depicts the Karnak Hypostyle Hall and how it has
                        been used in movies such as James Bond's "They Spy Who Loved Me" and more recently "Transformers:
                        Revenge of the Fallen." It then speaks about how the University of Memphis is working
                        there, "uncovering the mysteries" of Ancient Egypt, and Mr Shilling is shown doing
                        his work on the scaffolding, beginning at 3:52.
                     
                     
                     Dr Brand reported today that the field season is going very well and that he will
                        be returning to Memphis on 15 January with most of the students. Another senior doctoral
                        student, Ms Erika Feleg, will continue to work at Karnak along with the project's photographer
                        until 31 March. 
                     
                     
                     This season's field work was made possible by the project's fifth consecutive grant
                        from the National Endowment for the Humanities and its first grant from the American
                        Research Center in Egypt's Egyptian Antiquities Fund, which in turn is funded by the
                        US-AID program from the State Department. 
                     
                     
                     You may find more information about the Karnak Hypostyle Hall Project on its website and on its Facebook page . (The Facebook page has an item about the project's participating in the celebrations
                        arranged for this year's solstice at Karnak on 21 December, which it described as
                        "magnificent!")
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              History Happenings
                              Significant happenings that involve our faculty, students, staff, and alumni.
                           
                           
                              Newsletter
                              The department newsletter is filled with interesting articles and information about
                                 our award-winning faculty and students.
                              
                           
                           
                              Memphis Massacre
                              This project is designed to call public attention to an event that rattled Reconstruction-era
                                 Memphis in May 1866. Click on the link to read more about it and see the schedule
                                 of events for this April and May 2016.
                              
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Contact the Department of History at The University of Memphis.
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/14/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/history/history-happenings/happenings_2015.php
