http://www.memphis.edu/history/history-happenings/happenings_2016.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of History
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Why History?
                        Undergraduate
                        Graduate
                        Online
                        People
                        HERC
                        GAAAH
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Department of History
                              	
                        
                              	History Happenings
                              	
                        History Happenings 2016
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     History Happenings for 2016
                     
                      Malcom Frierson (PhD 2015) selected as President's Scholar, North Lake College
                     
                     
                     Malcolm Frierson, who received his PhD from the Department of History in 2015, was
                        selected as this year's President's Scholar at North Lake College in Dallas, Texas.
                        The award comes with a financial prize and reserved parking space. He is delivering
                        a public lecture on November 9 about his research project on the politics and humor
                        of Dick Gregory and Bill Cosby, which began as his dissertation at the University
                        of Memphis. In advance of the lecture, the college did a feature story on Dr. Frierson's life and work.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      Dr. Dennis Laumann's book translated into Arabic
                     
                     
                     [3 Nov 2016] Dr. Dennis Laumann's book Colonial Africa, 1884-1994 , originally published by Oxford University Press in 2013, has been translated into
                        Arabic by Belabbes Ali Abdelhafid and recently published in Algeria by Dar El Adib
                        Editions.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                     The OAH posts Drs. O'Donovan and Bond's blog post about the Memphis Massacre of 1866
                     
                     [13 Oct 2016] You can read it here. 
                     
                      Richard Nollan (PhD 2012) publishes Blood Picture
                     
                     [30 Aug 2016] Richard Nollan, who earned his Ph.D. in History from the University
                        of Memphis in 2012, has published Blood Picture: L. W. Diggs, Sickle Cell Anemia, and the South's First Blood Bank . Based on his dissertation, written under the direction of Charles Crawford, the
                        book is the story of Lemuel Diggs, a researcher who came to Memphis and studied sickle
                        cell disease, which would lead him to confront medical racism, establish the South's
                        first blood blank and the nation's first sickle cell center, and help define the mission
                        of St. Jude Children's Research Hospital. The book is published by University of Tennessee
                        Press. Dr. Nollan is Associate Professor and Interim Associate Director of the Health
                        Sciences Library at the University of Tennessee Health Science Center.
                     
                     
                      Dr. Susan O'Donovan awarded a Dunavant Professorship
                     
                     
                     [24 August 2016] From the Memphis Accolades page: "Susan Eva O'Donovan is an Associate
                        Professor of History at the University of Memphis. She is a past editor on the Freedmen
                        & Southern Society Project at the University of Maryland, a former member of the faculties
                        of History and African & African American Studies at Harvard University, and co-editor
                        of American Nineteenth-Century History, the journal of the British American Nineteenth-Century
                        History Association. A specialist in African American history with a particular interest
                        in slavery and emancipation, O'Donovan is the author of Becoming Free in the Cotton
                        South (2007), winner of the 2008 OAH James A. Rawley Prize, the 2009 Georgia Historical
                        Records Advisory Board Award for Excellence in Research Using the Holdings of an Archives,
                        and finalist for the 2008 Agricultural History Society Theodore Saloutos Memorial
                        Award. She is also author or co-editor of numerous other publications, including Freedom:
                        A Documentary History of Emancipation, 1861-1867, ser. 3, vol. 1, Land and Labor,
                        1865 (2008); Freedom: A Documentary History of Emancipation, 1861-1867, ser. 3, vol.
                        1, Land and Labor, 1866-67 (2013) (winner of the 2015 Thomas Jefferson Prize given
                        by the Society for History of the Federal Government); "At the Intersection of Cotton
                        and Commerce: Antebellum Savannah and its Slaves," in Slavery and Freedom in Savannah,
                        ed. Daina Ramey and Leslie M. Harris (2014); "Mapping Freedom's Terrain: The Political
                        and Productive Landscapes of Wilmington, North Carolina," in After Slavery: New Approaches
                        to the Reconstruction South, ed. by Bruce E. Baker and Brian Kelly (2013); and "Universities
                        of Social and Political Change: Slaves in Jail in Antebellum America," in Buried Lives:
                        Incarcerated in Early America, ed. by Michele Lise Tarter and Richard Bell (2012)
                        which has been reprinted in Major Problems in American History, vol. 1, 4th ed. (2016).
                        O'Donovan has contributed articles, review essays, opinion pieces, and book reviews
                        to a range of periodicals and journals, most recently, Labor: Studies in Working-Class
                        History of the Americas, The Journal of American History, Civil War History, the Tennessee
                        Historical Quarterly, and the New York Times. O'Donovan is currently at work on a
                        project Changing the Rules of the Game: Mobility, Messages, and Power in Slavery's
                        Nation. This study seeks to take seriously, historicize, and understand what is all
                        too often left unexamined as the "politics of slaves." In addition to her research
                        and writing, O'Donovan is also working in partnership with the National Park Service
                        and other collaborative partners to develop the first-ever NPS commemoration devoted
                        to any aspect of Reconstruction. Titled Memories of a Massacre: Memphis 1866, this
                        initiative is designed to generate an enduring and public conversation about a long-overlooked
                        but foundational part of the American experience. O'Donovan's scholarship has been
                        generously supported by a number of prestigious fellowships and grants, including
                        residential fellowships at Agrarian Studies (Yale); the Gilder Lehrman Center for
                        the Study of Slavery, Resistance, and Abolition; and the Newberry Library. She is
                        currently an OAH Distinguished Lecturer, and coordinator for West Tennessee History
                        Day."
                     
                     
                      Drs. O'Donovan and Bond reflect on the Memphis Massacre project
                     
                     
                     [17 Aug 2016] After a busy summer, Drs. Susan O'Donovan and Beverly Bond took a moment
                        to reflect on the Memphis Massacre project. They have a new post on "Muster," the
                        official blog of the Society of Civil War Historians. You can check it out here .
                     
                     
                      Dr. Peter Brand delivers several lectures in China
                     
                     
                     [12 August 2016] In the second half of May Dr. Peter Brand returned to China for his
                        second trip there to see the sites and meet with his Chinese colleagues in the field
                        of Egyptology. He had a couple of lectures at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences
                        in Beijing. During his week long stay in Beijing, which means "the Northern Capital,"
                        he saw the Forbidden City, the Great Wall and the Ming Dynasty royal tombs, all of
                        which equal or exceed the grandeur of Ancient Egyptian monuments in the Valley of
                        the Kings, the Great Pyramids or Karnak Temple. Next he travelled to Changchun in
                        Northeast China to give four lectures at Northeast Normal University and to visit
                        with his colleague Professor Li Xiaodong, the most senior Egyptologist in China, and
                        his colleagues and students. Prof. Li and two Chinese students will work with Dr.
                        Brand and his students at Karnak Temple for the Fall 2016 season of the Karnak Hypostyle
                        Hall Project.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      Dr. Colin Chapell publishes "Ye That Are Men Now Serve Him"
                     
                     
                     [10 August 2016[ Congratulations to Dr. Colin Chapell, whose first book, "'Ye That
                        Are Men Now Serve Him': Radical Holiness Theology and Gender in the South," was published
                        by the University of Alabama Press!
                     
                     
                     From the website, "Modernity remade much of the world in the late nineteenth and early
                        twentieth centuries and was nowhere more transformational than in the American South.
                        In the wake of the Civil War, the region not only formed new legal, financial, and
                        social structures, but citizens of the South also faced disorienting uncertainty about
                        personal identity and even gender itself. Ye That Are Men Now Serve Him traces the
                        changes in southern gender roles during the New South period of 1877–1915 and demonstrates
                        that religion is the key to perceiving how constructions of gender changed."
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      Dr. Dennis Laumann presents paper in Ghana
                     
                     
                     [8 August 2016] Dr. Dennis Laumann participated in the Ghana Studies Association Triennial
                        Conference 2016 at the University of Cape Coast in Ghana on July 6-9. He presented
                        a paper entitled "The origins, development, and influence of the Hare Krishna Movement
                        in Ghana" and also participated in a roundtable entitled "The Politics and Practice
                        of Study Abroad Programs in Ghana." Attached is a photo from the roundtable. To his left are Dr. Wilhelmina Donkoh, President
                        of Garden City University College in Ghana, and Dr. Akosua Adomoko Ampofo, Director
                        of the Institute of African Studies at the University of Ghana. Dr. Laumann is a former President of the Ghana Studies Association (2007-2011) and
                        currently serves on its advisory board. The second photo features, from left to right: Dr. Benjamin Talton (Temple University),
                        president of the GSA 2012-2015; Dr. Nana Akua Anyidoho (University of Ghana), current
                        GSA President; Dr. Ato Quayson (University of Toronto), keynote speaker at the conference;
                        and Dr. Laumann. Besides the conference, he spent three weeks in Ghana doing archival and field research
                        and collaborating with his colleague, Dr. Kofi Baku of the University of Ghana, on
                        a monograph on Ghana's history.
                     
                     
                       
                     
                      Dr. Catherine Phipps returns from workshops in Germany
                     
                     
                     [5 August 2016] Who knew that Germany would be a hot spot this summer for discussing
                        port cities and maritime imperialism!? Dr. Catherine Phipps was invited to two different
                        workshops there this summer. The first was on Treaty Ports in East Asia and was held
                        at Heidelberg University in mid-June. Scholars of Japan, China, and Korea came together
                        from around the world to discuss their current work on treaty ports as well as trends
                        in and future possibilities for the field. The second workshop, Imperial Port Cities
                        in the Age of Steam, was held in mid-July in Berlin (in connection with the Freie
                        Universität, Technische Universität, and Humboldt Universität). These discussions
                        centered on the specific characteristics and histories of port cities, as well as
                        on their connections, differences, and limitations as subjects of study. In describing
                        her trip Dr. Phipps told us "I got a lot out of both workshops, met and reconnected
                        with some wonderful people, and thoroughly enjoyed exploring the cities of Heidelberg
                        and Berlin!"
                     
                     
                      Dr. Guiomar Duenas-Vargas delivers two papers in Spain
                     
                     
                     [3 August 2016] Dr. Duenas Vargas had an exciting summer this year. She delivered
                        a number of papers, most recently at CEISAL2016 Tiempos posthegemónicos: sociedad,
                        cultura y política en America Latina, Instituto de Iberoamerica, at the Universidad
                        de Salamanca, Salamanca, España, June 28, July1, 2016. A month prior she attended
                        ADEH2016 Association of Historical Demography, June 21-24, 2016, in Cadiz, Spain and
                        delivered a paper titled "Hombres, mujeres, y muchos niños. El censo de viruelas de
                        1801 en Santa Fe de Bogotá" (Women, Men and many children. The Smallpox census, 1801
                        in Santa Fe de Bogotá.) Before the semester concluded she delivered a paper at RMCLAS-2016
                        Annual Conference, Santa Fe NM, March 30th, April 2, 2016 titled "Written in Blood
                        and Tears. War, Peace and Masculinity in 19th Century Colombia." She was also a jury
                        for the book award granted to the Best Book on colonial Latin American History 2016
                        at the same conference.
                     
                     
                     She has two chapters coming out, an introductory Chapter for the forthcoming book,
                        Las cosas del querer: Amor, familia y matrimonio in Iberoamerica. (Endearing things: Love, family and marriage in Hispanic America) and "Who is afraid
                        of Emotions"? chapter in that same book.
                     
                     
                      Dr. Dan Unowsky leads Holocaust Travel Seminar with Rhodes College professors
                     
                     
                     [1 August 2016] Dr. Dan Unowsky helped lead a Holocaust Travel Seminar out of Rhodes
                        College. The group had 18 participants and three professors (Dr. Unowsky, Dr. Jonathan Judaken,
                        and Dr. Stephen Haynes, both of the latter Rhodes Faculty.) According to the group's
                        Facebook Page, the course "explores Jewish and non-Jewish life in Berlin, Prague,
                        Krakow, and Warsaw before, during, and after the Holocaust." You can see a photojournal
                        of their entire trip on their Facebook page: Rhodes College Holocaust Travel Seminar.
                     
                      Drs. Beverly Tsacoyianis and Ben Graham discuss globalization
                     
                     
                     [30 June 2016] Drs. Beverly Tsacoyianis and Ben Graham joined musician and designer
                        Marco Alexander and fashion designer Tara Skelley for a conversation about the impact of globalization on Memphis' music, food, culture
                        and fashion. Moderated by Eileen Townsend, the event was was held on 22  June and
                        was coordinated by Young Art Patrons of Memphis, hosted in conjunction with the exhibit "My Rock Stars" (Hassan Hijjaj) currently at the Memphis Brooks Museum of Art. This event is part of a larger series of art classes the group hosts, you can check
                        out their previous and upcoming events here . Images courtesy of Young Art Patrons and their photographers Trey Easter and Lauren
                        Turner.
                     
                     
                        
                     
                        
                     
                      More National Attention for the Memphis Massacre Symposium
                     
                     
                     [24 June 2016] CSPAN  will be airing panels four and five of the Memphis Massacre
                        Symposium on July 9 and July 23 respectively.
                     
                     
                     Session 4: The Memphis Massacre, featuring Stephen V. Ash, Hannah Rosen, and Andrew
                        Slapp, will air at 6:00pm ET (5:00pm CT) on July 9.
                     
                     
                     Session 5: The Radicalization of Reconstruction, featuring Julie Saville, Carole Emberton,
                        and Timothy Huebner, will air at 6:00pm ET (5:00pm CT) on July 23.
                     
                     
                      Commemorating the 1866 Memphis Massacre (video)
                     
                     
                     [10 June 2016] Drs. Bond and O'Donovan discussing the "literal whitewashing of big
                        chunks of American history." If you've ever asked yourself "why wasn't I taught about
                        this [about the Memphis Massacre] in history?" then check out this video .
                     
                     
                      Dr. Daryl Carter Publishes  Brother Bill
                     
                     [27 May 2016] Daryl Carter has published his first book, Brother Bill: President Clinton and the Politics of Race and Class ( University of Arkansas Press). Dr. Carter completed his PhD in History at the University of Memphis in 2011 under
                        the direction of Aram Goudsouzian, and he is now an Associate Professor of History
                        at East Tennessee State University. Cornel West blurbs Brother Bill: "This book is
                        a fascinating analysis of race and clas in the age of President Bill Clinton. It provides
                        much-needed clarity in regards to the myth of the 'First Black President.' It contributes
                        much to our understanding of the history that informs our present moment."
                     
                     
                      Drs. Bond and O'Donovan in a special edition of Talk, Memphis
                     
                     
                     [19 May 2016] Drs. Bond and O'Donovan discussed the Memphis Massacre for a special
                        edition of Talk, Memphis with David Waters, a columnist for The Commercial Appeal . You can listen to the podcast here. 
                     
                      Whitney Kennon named Gilder Lehrman Teacher of the Year in the State of Tennessee
                     
                     
                     [18 May 2016] Dr. Whitney Kennon won the Gilder Lehrman Teacher of the Year award for Tennessee! Dr. Kennon graduated from our program in 2008, under the direction
                        of Dr. Jim Blythe. Dr. Kennon currently teaches for Margolin Hebrew Academy in Memphis,
                        Tennessee, and also teaches medieval history courses part-time for our department. 
                     
                     
                      According to their website, to be considered for the award teachers must demonstrate
                        the following:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        A demonstrated commitment to teaching American history (including state and local
                           history)
                        
                        
                        Evidence of creativity and imagination in the classroom
                        
                        Effective use of documents, artifacts, historic sites, oral histories, and other primary
                           resources to engage students with American history
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     State level winners receive classroom resources for their libraries and become a Glider
                        Lehrman Affiliate School. Dr. Kennon is now a finalist for the National Teaching Award,
                        which will be announced in the fall.
                     
                     
                      Marcus Orr fellows announced: Dr. Beverly Tsacoyianis, graduate student Andrea Ringer
                        among the recipients
                     
                     
                     [12 May 2016] Today the Marcus Orr Center for Humanities announced the recipients
                        of the spring 2017 fellowship awards. Dr. Beverly Tsacoyianis will be one of the three faulty fellows, and Andrea Ringer received the dissertation fellowship. You can read more about the fellowship at MOCH's website .
                     
                     
                     This is the second year that we've had excellent representation in the MOCH fellowship
                        from the department. You can read about last year's recipients here. 
                     
                      Dr. Christine Eisel's digital collaboration is "making an impact" with students
                     
                     
                     [9 May 2016] Students in the Spring 2015 online section of Women in American History
                        (HIST 4851) created a digital exhibit using archival materials culled from Special
                        Collections at the Ned McWherter Library. The project was created by Dr. Christine
                        Eisel, History faculty member, in partnership with Brigitte Billeaudeaux, University
                        of Memphis Libraries' Archival Assistant. This type of collaboration is new for both
                        departments and has been an experiment in the possibilities of applied learning in
                        digital scholarship for students at the university. Students in the Spring 2016 classroom
                        section of HIST 4851 are currently expanding the exhibit. The project was conceived as an opportunity for students to gain exposure and build
                        skills in historical methods and in digital scholarship while enhancing their online
                        learning environment. Students in the courses have worked in groups according to topics
                        of interest. Working in teams, students have developed secondary source bibliographies;
                        selected primary source archival materials from University Libraries' Special Collections;
                        written narrative essays, document descriptions and metadata; and uploaded their work
                        into Omeka, The result is "Making and Impact: The Lives of Tennessee Women," an exhibit that highlights Tennessee women throughout the 19th and 20th centuries. The project truly has been collaborative, from its inception to its completion. Jennifer
                        Schnabel, former Assistant to the Dean for Community Engagement for University Libraries
                        at U of M and current English librarian at The Ohio State University, brainstormed
                        ideas with Eisel and Billeaudeaux; history undergraduate intern Chase Plesofsky assisted
                        in choosing and scanning archival material; and history graduate student Morgan Walker
                        has provided editorial assistance for the Omeka site.
                     
                     
                      Memphis Massacre Marker Discussed on NPR's "Code Switch"
                     
                     
                     [3 May 2016] Dr. Beverly Bond was on a WKNO radio segment about the Memphis Massacre
                        marker, and it got picked up by national NPR and featured on "Code Switch." You can
                        read the article here , and you can learn more about the project at the Memphis Massacre website .
                     
                     
                       National Parks Service Establishes Marker for the 1866 Memphis Massacre
                     
                     
                     [2 May 2016] The Commercial Appeal covered the unveiling of the National Parks Service historical marker to finally,
                        in the words of the paper, honor the truth and the victims of the 1866 Memphis Massacre.
                        In the words of Dr. Aram Goudsouzian, chair, "this whole endeavor started in the minds
                        of our colleagues Susan O'Donovan and Beverly Bond, and it has snowballed into a community-wide
                        discussion that has involved a wide host of events, a variety of sponsors, and most
                        importantly a series of reflections on the meaning of history and its role in contemporary
                        struggles for justice. I'm so proud of them for how they've used their academic work
                        to engage with the public. It is a bright advertisement for why the humanities matter
                        so much, and it is a model for us all."
                     
                     
                     Don't forget that their big symposium is still to come--May 20th and 21st. Check their
                        website for details.
                     
                     
                      Karen Bradley wins the Outstanding Employee Award
                     
                     
                     [28 April 2016] The College of Arts and Sciences has awarded Ms. Karen Bradley the
                        Dean's Outstanding Employee Award for 2016. Award winners are nominated by faculty and staff, and are selected for
                        their department leadership, commitment, and professionalism.
                     
                     
                      West Tennessee History Day students go on to win the state level competition
                     
                     
                     [28 April 2016] Please join us in congratulation the medal winners from the West Tennessee
                        District at Tennessee History Day State Competition! We are very proud of all our
                        state participants and wish all our state winners luck at the upcoming National Competition!
                        For more information on West Tennessee History Day, coordinated by Dr. Susan O'Donovan
                        and hosted at the University of Memphis, check out their website here .
                     
                     
                     The first and second place winners will advance to the national contest, which will
                        be held June 12-16 at the University of Maryland, College Park.
                     
                     
                     SENIOR GROUP DOCUMENTARY: Second Place Title: Thinking Outside the Pox: The History of the World's First Vaccine
                        Students: Swati Kinger, Reethu Krishnan School: Collierville High School, Collierville,
                        TN Teachers: Michelle Martin, Catherine Hammons
                     
                     
                     SENIOR INDIVIDUAL EXHIBIT: First Place Title: A Question of Loyalty: Encountering Racism on All Fronts Student: McKenzie Desio School: First Assembly Christian School, Cordova, TN Teacher: Victoria Gast
                     
                     
                     Second Place Title: Scott Bowden: The Deadly Exchange Student: Scott Bowden School: First Assembly Christian School, Cordova, TN Teacher: Sherrie Hopper
                     
                     
                     JUNIOR INDIVIDUAL EXHIBIT: First Place Title: The Story of the 9th Armored Division Student: Jon Mark Castleman School: Dyersburg Middle School, Dyersburg, TN Teacher: Becky Hasselle
                     
                     
                     SENIOR INDIVIDUAL PERFORMANCE: First Place Title: Words are Not Enough: Martha Graham and the Post War Modern Dance
                        Movement Student: Hannah Shelton School: First Assembly Christian School, Cordova, TN Teacher: Sherrie Hopper
                     
                     
                     SENIOR GROUP PERFORMANCE: Second Place Title: Suleyman's Reign: The Ottoman Empire and How it Flourished Under
                        His Rule Students: Inara Devji, Milanca Wang, Rebecca Price, Zephyr Barlow, Tori Moore-McMiller School: Lausanne Collegiate School, Memphis, TN Teacher: Rebecca Hodges
                     
                     
                     SENIOR INDIVIDUAL WEBSITE: Third Place Title: A Soviet Dissident's Exploration of Human Rights Student: Osman Celikok School: Pleasant View School, Memphis, TN Teacher: Andre Clarke
                     
                     
                     SENIOR GROUP WEBSITE: Third Place Title: History of 1920's Film: Impact of Filmmaking Students: Tess Emerson, Meghan Fleming, Arabella Hamm School: St. Agnes Academy-St. Dominic School, Memphis, TN Teacher: Mark McDonald
                     
                     
                     JUNIOR GROUP WEBSITE:
                     
                     Third Place Title: Apollo 11 Students: Samuel Paul, Camden Estes School: First Assembly Christian School, Cordova, TN Teacher: Victoria Gast
                     
                     
                     SENIOR INDIVIDUAL PAPER: First Place Title: The French Exploration and Occupation of Syria: Encounters and
                        Exchanges that Left a Lasting Legacy Student: Ibtihal Malley School: Pleasant View School, Memphis, TN Teacher: Andre Clarke
                     
                     
                     JUNIOR INDIVIDUAL PAPER: Second Place Title: Lewis and Clark Student: Caroline Finch School: St. George's Independent School, Collierville, Collierville, TN Teacher: Traci Erlandson
                     
                     
                     Third Place Title: Islam in America: Encounters and Exchanges that Forged an American
                        Muslim Identity Student: Muadth Malley School: Pleasant View School, Memphis, TN Teacher: Ashir Kirk
                     
                     
                     ---------------------------------------- SPECIAL AWARD WINNERS ---------------------------------------- DR. SAM B. SMITH AWARD: Title: The French Exploration and Occupation of Syria: Encounters and Exchanges that
                        Left a Lasting Legacy Student: Ibtihal Malley School: Pleasant View School, Memphis, TN Teacher: Andre Clarke
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Dr. Charles Crawford wins the Alumni Association's Distinguished Teaching Award
                     
                      [31 March 2016] Dr. Charles Crawford, Professor and Director of the Oral History Research
                        Office, won the Alumni Association's Distinguished Teaching Award.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Beverly Bond receives the Carter G Woodson Award of Merit.
                     
                     [15 February 2016] Dr. Beverly Bond was awarded the Carter G Woodson Award of Merit
                        from Southwest Tennessee Community College. The school created the award in 1988 to
                        "recognize individuals, groups, or agencies who have contributed to, preserved, or
                        promoted the African-American experience and who support Dr. Woodson's legacy of "historical
                        accuracy through inclusion."
                     
                     
                     Dr. Bond is also the co-director of the Memories of a Massacre project. You can check
                        out their blog here and read more about the project, including upcoming events, here .
                     
                     
                     Dr. Sarah Potter named director of the Marcus Orr Center for the Humanities
                     
                     [7 January 2016] Dr. Sarah Potter was named the director of the Marcus Orr Center
                        for the Humanities.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              History Happenings
                              Significant happenings that involve our faculty, students, staff, and alumni.
                           
                           
                              Newsletter
                              The department newsletter is filled with interesting articles and information about
                                 our award-winning faculty and students.
                              
                           
                           
                              Memphis Massacre
                              This project is designed to call public attention to an event that rattled Reconstruction-era
                                 Memphis in May 1866. Click on the link to read more about it and see the schedule
                                 of events for this April and May 2016.
                              
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Contact the Department of History at The University of Memphis.
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 11/8/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/history/history-happenings/happenings_2016.php
