http://www.memphis.edu/intl/resources/index.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			International Studies
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Major & Minor
                        People
                        Resources
                        News & Events
                        Career
                     
                     
                        
                           Resources for International Studies
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Travel Grants
                                 Scholarships
                                 Other Opportunities
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	INTL
                              	
                        
                           	Resources
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     International Research Travel Grants
                     
                     With the generous partnership of the Study Abroad Program , the Helen Hardin Honors Program , and Marcus Orr Center for the Humanities , we are able to fund two new research travel awards. For faculty-undergraduate research
                        partnerships in international settings, click here . For graduate students pursuing international humanities research, click here . 
                     
                     
                     Deadline has passed for 2016. Grants will be offered again for the summer of 2017.
                     
                     Your contributions help fund international research awards for our students and faculty
                        affiliates. Click here to support International Studies.
                     
                     
                     Faculty seeking undergraduate research support should contact Keri Brondo with a brief
                           description of their research project – kbrondo@memphis.edu
                     
                     2016 Graduate student award for international humanities research recipients 
                     
                     Not pictured: Joyce Harris, MA Candidate, Anthropology – "Historic Urban Regeneration-Sicily,
                        Italy"
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Andy Ross
                     
                     MFA Candidate, Creative Writing
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                     "Kings of Canebrake"
                     
                     I am currently working on a novel-length thesis manuscript entitled, Kings of the
                        Canebrake, in order to complete my MFA in Creative Writing from the Department of
                        English. The narrative of my thesis project centers on a modern-day manuscript curator
                        researching the life of an infamous nineteenth-century hunter from the Mississippi
                        Delta. This summer, as part of my research into the museum and cultural heritage industries,
                        I will attend the International Council of Museums Conference in Milan, Italy. The
                        conference, which is held once every three years, is attended by curators, historians,
                        archivists and other related professionals from more than 100 countries. Among the
                        keynote speakers is Orhan Pamuk, the Turkish novelist and author of the 2010 book,
                        The Museum of Innocence.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Benjamin Curtis
                     
                     Ph.D. Candidate, Communication
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                     "Sovereignty and Violence: Towards a Reading of Walten"
                     
                     In this paper, I will explore the relationship between violence and sovereignty in
                        Jacques Derrida's thought, as well as any political consequences of this reading.
                        Part one will concentrate mostly on his later seminars, in particular The Beast and
                        the Sovereign, volume 2, will attempt to show the nuanced relationship between violence
                        and sovereignty through an in depth treatment of the German word Walten. Derrida reads
                        Heidegger with and against himself to show the connection between walten and the difference
                        of ontological difference. Returning to Derrida's critique of Levinas in "Violence
                        and Metaphysics," the second part of this paper will give a brief overview of Derrida's
                        critique of originary violence, and then show how this critique can help illuminate
                        this discussion of sovereignty through the concept of an economy of violence. The
                        third part will attempt to narrow the scope of this originary violence and 'hyper'-sovereignty
                        towards the theologico-political, properly construed. It will attempt to draw some
                        political conclusions and consequences from this reading of sovereignty and/as originary
                        violence, keeping in mind Derrida's own political (non-)commitments, as well as the
                        conceptual limits deconstructive thinking places on its own thought.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Crystal Daugherty
                     
                     Ph.D. Candidate, Communication
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                     "Health Legacies, Spirituality, and Coping: A Study of Health Narratives in Liberia"
                     
                     My research study will take place in and around the town of Flehla, Liberia. Flehla
                        is a village of approximately 2,000 people located four hours northwest of Monrovia.
                        I am traveling to Liberia May 14th-30th, 2016 to conduct my dissertation research
                        on health narratives. This work will build on previous research work in Liberia. My
                        study uses a grounded theory methodological approach to explore the connection between
                        health legacies, spirituality, and coping with serious illness in Liberia. Through
                        approximately 50 semi-structured interviews and several focus groups, I will collect
                        narratives from two groups: 1) individuals who have experienced a serious health problem
                        and 2) both biomedical and traditional (indigenous) healthcare providers. The interview
                        script is adapted from The McGill Illness Narrative Interview (MINI), which was designed
                        by Groleau, Young and Kirmayer (2006) to elicit illness narratives in health research.
                        My study will add to a growing body of qualitative literature in health communication
                        and Liberia.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Sarah Marshall
                     
                     Ph.D. Candidate, Philosophy
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                     "Judith, la buveuse de sang; Or Freuds Holophernesian Phantasms"
                     
                     Since the 1976 resumption of capital punishment in the United States, 1,431 defendants
                        have been executed. Fifteen were female. Despite the disproportionately small number
                        of American women executed in comparison to American men, the French-Algerian philosopher
                        Jacques Derrida suggests that there is a significant relationship between the death
                        penalty and femininity. In his 1999-2001 seminars titled The Death Penalty, Derrida
                        explores the deployment of feminine characterizations of the guillotine in the rhetoric
                        of abolitionist Victor Hugo and contemporaneous media sources. He relates this to
                        a deep-seated anxiety regarding the place of the feminine in the patriarchal Western
                        imaginary. To put it briefly, the feminine poses a perpetual threat to phallic dominion.
                        In my research, I examine Derrida's critical analysis of Freud's unconscious anxieties
                        over the feminine threat to masculine potency, in both the sense of socio-political
                        dominance as well as the sense of genealogical security. I contend that Derrida deploys
                        Freud's symptomatic reading of the story of Judith and Holophernes in "The Taboo of
                        Virginity" to characterize the death penalty as a defensive formation that compulsively
                        attempts to master castration anxiety. This could account for why, of the fifteen
                        women executed since 1976, the victims of eleven were male, often a husband or boyfriend.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Tailer Ransom
                     
                     Ph.D. Candidate, Philosophy
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                     "Material Engagement Theory and Agency"
                     
                     My research is primarily in the fields of philosophy of mind, philosophy of cognitive
                        science, phenomenology and marxist critical theory. Recently, I have taken an interest
                        in Material Engagement Theory (MET), which deals with the various ways in which cognition,
                        semiotics and agency do not merely involve brain states or mental states, occurring
                        in a private 'inner' mind that represents and sets out programs for our activity.
                        Instead, MET holds that the mind emerges out of actions, interactions and engagements
                        with the material and social world in which we are situated.
                     
                     
                     I will be traveling to Oxford in June to work with Dr. Lambros Malafouris, a scholar
                        in the field of MET. We will also hold a workshop on the subject, with a variety of
                        invited scholars, where I will present some of my work on Merleau-Ponty's theory of
                        embodied cognition in relation to some of the claims in MET.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Resources for International Studies
                        
                           
                              
                              Travel Grants
                              Scholarships
                              Other Opportunities
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Study Abroad
                              More than 200 semester, academic year and summer programs and internships in over
                                 60 countries
                              
                           
                           
                              Governor's School for International Studies
                              Provides rising high school juniors and seniors a four week immersion into the world
                                 around us, including the study and discussion of global cultures, foreign languages
                                 and international perspectives
                              
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Main contact and location information.
                           
                           
                              Give to International Studies
                              Your support helps fund international research awards for our students and faculty
                                 affiliates.
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/7/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/intl/resources/index.php
