http://www.memphis.edu/jrsm/about/index.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Journalism and Strategic Media
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        B.A. Program
                        M.A. Program
                        People
                        Syllabi
                        Student Resources
                        News
                     
                     
                        
                           About 
                           
                              
                                 Accreditation
                                 Major Analysis
                                 Retention Efforts
                                 Community Outreach
                                 Contact Us
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	JRSM
                              	
                        
                           	About Us
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Greetings from Department Chair David Arant, Ph.D.
                     
                     I am pleased that you are interested in joining one of our dynamic media programs.
                        The department has a distinguished faculty helping more than 400 students develop
                        professional careers in advertising, public relations and news. Please visit the faculty profile page  to meet our outstanding faculty members.
                     
                     
                     Visit our news page to learn about our outstanding students winning awards in regional and national competitions.
                        You can also find more about the day-to-day activities of our department by visiting
                        us on Facebook .
                     
                     
                     We are fortunate to have great support from alumni and friends who have endowed scholarship
                        and enrichment funds to support the education of our students. Visit our scholarship
                        pages to learn more about awards for which you may qualify. Let me know if I can help
                        you prepare for a career in journalism, advertising, public relations and social and
                        visual media. Thank you.
                     
                     
                     David Arant, Ph.D. Professor and Chair Department of Journalism and Strategic Media
                     
                     
                     
                     Our Vision
                     
                     The University of Memphis Department of Journalism and Strategic Media and its programs
                        has been recognized as one of the country's best, noted for its comprehensive and
                        innovative approach preparing undergraduate and graduate students for meaningful and
                        ethical practice in the journalism, advertising, public relations, visual media and
                        other media professions. It seeks to provide a supportive environment for its faculty
                        members as they educate and mentor the next generation of media professionals and
                        conduct research that develops media knowledge for the field and engaged scholarship
                        for the local community and the world at large.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Our Mission
                     
                     The University of Memphis Department of Journalism and Strategic Media is a learn-er-centered,
                        professional program providing high-quality educational experiences while pursuing
                        new knowledge through research, professional outreach and engaged scholarship.
                     
                     
                     Highest Priorities
                     
                     
                        
                        Increase enrollment, retention and graduation rates for students and prepare them
                           for careers in the journalism and strategic media profession.
                        
                        
                        Maintain up-to-date professional knowledge and skills in journalism and strategic
                           media through professional training and research and incorporate that knowledge into
                           the classroom.
                        
                        
                        Create excellent scholarly and creative activities to expand knowledge in the fields
                           of journalism and strategic media as well as enhance the instructional effectiveness
                           of faculty members by incorporating their own research and that of contemporary scholars
                           in the classroom.
                        
                        
                        Build and nurture partnerships with local businesses, non-profits and other organizations.
                        
                        Incorporate entrepreneurialism at all levels of the curriculum and deepen ties with
                           the Memphis entrepreneurship community.
                        
                        
                        Provide a welcoming and nurturing learning and mentorship environment that supports
                           the diversity and richness of expression of our student body and offer educational
                           and professional resources that equip our students, many first-generation college
                           students, for meaningful and productive journalism and strategic media careers.
                        
                        
                        Develop mastery of skills in students in five key areas: Critical Thinking, Media
                           Literacy, Multimedia, Professionalism and Writing.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Values
                     
                     The University of Memphis Department of Journalism and Strategic Media, as an engaged
                        learning professional program, celebrates:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        The pursuit of excellence in journalism and strategic media teaching and re-search
                           as the highest measures of successful achievement.
                        
                        
                        Careful academic advising and professional mentoring to the department's students.
                        
                        High ethical standards, superior fact-gathering ability and excellence in story-telling
                           as the core of journalism and strategic media.
                        
                        
                        Global perspectives by encouraging and supporting student participation in study-abroad
                           experiences as well as by hosting international media professionals and exchange students
                           in the Department of Journalism.
                        
                        
                        A collegial work and learning environment that supports cultural diversity, encourages
                           a richness of academic expression and offers ample resources to make possible excellent
                           research and teaching.
                        
                        
                        Faculty service to the department, college, university and the media professions.
                           Through service, the department's interconnectivity to its many and varied, internal
                           and external publics is enhanced.
                        
                        
                        Continued assessment and revision of its programs and their outcomes to ensure our
                           students are prepared for the dynamic and constantly evolving media industries and
                           technologies.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     THE FIVE PILLARS OF of Education in Journalism and Strategic Media
                     
                     The Department of Journalism and Strategic Media emphasizes five key areas of education
                        and addresses each of them in every course.
                     
                     
                     1. Critical thinking
                     
                     Students will develop skills to think critically and independently, to process ideas
                        and information and to evaluate sources of information.
                     
                     
                     2. Writing
                     
                     Students will learn to write clearly, concisely and accurately for varying styles
                        applicable to the different disciplines addressed in the media.
                     
                     
                     3. Professionalism
                     
                     Students will dedicate themselves to excellence, observing the highest legal, ethical
                        and professional standards and learn the importance of diversity and inclusiveness.
                     
                     
                     4. Multimedia
                     
                     Students will develop skills in the application and execution of multimedia communication,
                        with emphasis on creative and visual storytelling.
                     
                     
                     5. Media literacy
                     
                     Students will learn the role of media in society, as well as the ways in which media
                        are used to communicate with mass audiences.
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        About 
                        
                           
                              Accreditation
                              Major Analysis
                              Retention Efforts
                              Community Outreach
                              Contact Us
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply to our Undergraduate Program
                              Apply and major in one of Journalism and Strategic Media's four professional, hands-on
                                 majors.
                              
                           
                           
                              Apply to our Masters Program
                              Earn your degree with one of our three professional M.A. emphases, or our Research
                                 emphasis.
                              
                           
                           
                              Our Student Media
                              Read articles in the Daily Helmsman, watch Tiger News broadcasts, engage with our
                                 students' community-based class projects and more.
                              
                           
                           
                              Email Us
                              Need more information? Click the link above to email us your questions.
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 8/22/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/jrsm/about/index.php
