http://www.memphis.edu/jrsm/news/index.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Journalism and Strategic Media
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        B.A. Program
                        M.A. Program
                        People
                        Syllabi
                        Student Resources
                        News
                     
                     
                        
                           News and Events
                           
                              
                                 
                                  Facebook
                                  Twitter
                                  LinkedIn
                                  YouTube
                                 
                                    
                                     Periscope
                                  Storify
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	JRSM
                              	
                        
                           	News and Events
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                      
                         Daniel Connolly, reporter of the Commercial Appeal , talked about his new book The Book of Isaias to journalism students as part of the
                           SPJ sponsored News Engagement Day events, on Oct 4, 2016. 
                        
                     
                     
                     News and Events
                     
                     The Department Newsletter Meeman Matters Launched 
                     
                     
                     Click here to read the August 2016 issue. 
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Journalism Outstanding Alumni Awards Dinner
                     
                     Thursday, October 13 6:00 pm Registration | 7:00 pm Dinner and Program Holiday Inn - 3700 Central Avenue
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     celebrate our new name with us
                     
                     The Department of Journalism and Strategic Media at the University of Memphis invites
                        you to an open house to celebrate our new name. We will have a reception to mark the occasion.
                        Additionally, our student clubs and media outlets will share their successes in the
                        past year and recruit new students to get involved.
                     
                     
                     TIME: Noon- 2 p.m. DATE: Wednesday, August 31 PLACE: Meeman Journalism Building Atrium
                     
                     
                     
                      MR. GEORGE M. LAPIDES, B.A. Journalism, 1964
                     
                     George Lapides, 76, died June 17, 2016, after a three-year fight with a lung disease,
                        idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.
                     
                     
                     George was a member of the first graduating class of White Station High School. He
                        attended the University of Tennessee, where he was Sports Editor of the student newspaper,
                        but completed his B.A. Journalism at the University of Memphis in 1964.
                     
                     
                     George worked for the Memphis Press Scimitar as a general and political reporter,
                        and Sports Editor and columnist until the newspaper closed in 1983.
                     
                     
                     Among other positions, he was athletics director at Rhodes College and president of
                        the Memphis Chicks baseball team.
                     
                     
                     From 1995-2005 George was the Sports Editor for WREG-TV, Channel 3. George is perhaps
                        best remembered for his sports talk radio show, Sportstime with George Lapides, which
                        he hosted for nearly 45 years.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Dr. Melissa Janoske selected for Plank Center for Leadership in Public Relations Fellowship
                        Program
                     
                     
                     Dr. Melissa Janoske , assistant professor in the Department of Journalism and Strategic Media, has been
                        awarded the prestigious Fellowship for Educators by the Plank Center for Leadership
                        in Public Relations. For her part of the fellowship, she will be hosted for two weeks
                        at General Motors in Detroit in July. Then in the fall, a public relations professional
                        from General Motors will come to the University of Memphis to work with our PR professors
                        and students.
                     
                     
                     "We developed the summer fellowship specifically for public relations educators with
                        the dual purpose of exposing professors to current day-to-day operations of the public
                        relations function and to help create an exchange of information and ideas that will
                        enhance the professional development of both the educators and the hosts," said Keith
                        Burton, vice chair of the Plank Center and principal of Grayson Emmett Partners.
                     
                     
                     Educators partake in research projects, training sessions and presentations, and assist
                        with company projects. In return, practitioners from the host organization visit the
                        educator's campus to interact with faculty, staff and students to share industry knowledge,
                        trends and valuable insight.
                     
                     
                     The namesake of the Center, Betsy Plank, always said, "public relations people must
                        be lifelong learners." The Center's goal with this program is to bridge the gap between
                        education and practice by seeking to combine academia with real world experience.
                     
                     
                     For further information on the Fellowship for Educators program, go to http://plankcenter.ua.edu .
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Fourteen UofM Journalism Students Will Cover Rio Olympics
                     
                     Fourteen journalism students from the University of Memphis will travel to Rio de
                        Janeiro this summer to cover the Olympic Games. The UofM is one of only two universities
                        (along with the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill) to have an agreement
                        with Rio's Olympic Organizing Committee to bring students there as interns.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Roxane Coche, assistant professor in the UofM's Department of Journalism and Strategic
                        Media, will be supervising the program from July 29 to Aug. 22. The students will
                        begin work Aug. 1 and will receive three hours of academic credit. The 2016 Summer
                        Olympics run Aug. 5-21.
                     
                     
                     The group will be housed in an Olympic Media Village, where they will be surrounded
                        by international media professionals, giving the students a unique opportunity to
                        network.
                     
                     
                     The student reporters will be assigned a sport, which they will cover during the entirety
                        of the games for the Olympic News Service (ONS), which acts as a newswire service
                        for the Games. All quotes and reports will be published on an Internet-based service,
                        only accessible to accredited media, officials and National Olympic Committees. International
                        media will then use ONS work to produce their own stories.
                     
                     
                     "Few people in their lifetime get to say 'I went to the Olympics,' let alone 'I covered
                        the Olympics,'" said Coche. "This is an incredible opportunity for our students, and
                        it puts the University of Memphis on the map of sports journalism education. It is
                        an exciting time for all of us in the Department of Journalism and Strategic Media."
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Norm Brewer First Amendment Lecture
                     
                     The University of Memphis Department of Journalism hosts Professor Douglas Brinkley
                        at 6 p.m., Tuesday, March 1, at the University Center Theatre for the Norm Brewer
                        First Amendment Lecture. Brinkley is a professor of history at Rice University, the
                        CNN Presidential Historian, and a contributing editor at Vanity Fair and Audubon.
                        He has also authored award winning books including Cronkite and The Great Deluge:
                        Hurricane Katrina, New Orleans and the Mississippi Gulf Coast. A reception will be
                        held at 5 p.m. just outside the University Center Theatre.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Helmsman staff among the "best in the South"
                     
                     For the second year in a row, The Daily Helmsman took home first place in news writing at the Southeast Journalism Conference.
                     
                     
                     The "Best of the South" awards is a regional competition between college news outlets
                        in the Southeastern United States.
                     
                     
                     The SEJC Conference, held this year in Clarksville, Tennessee, honors individual writing
                        and reporting by looking at the body of work of a single journalist.
                     
                     
                     The Helmsman staff placed in all the reporting/writing categories they entered.
                     
                     Jonathan Capriel , managing editor, won first place in the news-writing category for his story about
                        a violent sorority hazing and the University of Memphis' policy of revealing suspect
                        names, and fifth place in special event reporting. 
                     
                     
                     Patrick Lantrip , editor-in-chief, placed third in the feature-writing category. He wrote "The Thin
                        Blue Line," an in-depth look into Adderall abuse among students chasing better grades.
                     
                     
                     Omer Yusuf , sports editor, placed fourth in sports writing. His submission to SEJC included
                        "Head on Collision," a story featuring a U of M football player who had serious medical
                        problems because of multiple football-related concussions.
                     
                     
                     Reporter Gus Carrington's tribute to blues legend B.B. King, who died last year, placed fourth in the arts
                        and entertainment category. Carrington's story explains how the King changed music,
                        and why he still matters.
                     
                     
                     Former editor-in-chief, Josh Cannon took home the award for best feature writing. His story, "Rockabilly Man," was featured
                        on the cover of the Memphis Flyer in March of last year.
                     
                     
                     Mandy Hrach , copy editor and former reporter, took home best news writer in 2015, when the conference
                        was held in Atlanta.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     PRSSA dues deadline
                     
                     PRSSA membership dues should be turned in by Friday, Feb. 26. The cost is $60, and
                        they may be turned in to Dr. Melissa Janoske (mljnoske@memphis.edu) or PRSSA Treasurer
                        Chris Baxter (crbaxter@memphis.edu). Dues are paid annually and are split between
                        PRSSA Nationals and our chapter. We use the local chapter share of the membership
                        dues to pay for graduation cords, mixers and other opportunities for the chapter.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Professor Ron Spielberger Dies during Christmas Break
                     
                     University of Memphis Department of Journalism professor Ronald "Ron" Spielberger
                        died suddenly on December 26, 2015. A professor in the department for nearly 50 years,
                        Spielberger taught classes in news, advertising and public relations. He helped mentor
                        and advise countless University of Memphis students, who are among the city's best
                        communication leaders.
                     
                     
                     Spielberger's classes included feature writing, survey of advertising and introduction
                        to public relations. When he first came to Memphis, Spielberger also worked closely
                        with the student-run newspaper, The Daily Helmsman , serving as its advertising adviser.
                     
                     
                     His role as media adviser led Spielberger into national leadership with College Media
                        Advisers. He became the executive director of this national association, which was
                        headquartered here in the Department of Journalism for nearly 30 years.
                     
                     
                     Spielberger was the recipient of more than 40 awards, the author of 26 journal articles,
                        and a panelist at many conferences across the country. He planned and hosted two conferences
                        a year for College Media Advisers. College Media Advisers, recently rebranded College
                        Media Association, plans a tribute to Spielberger on Sunday, March 13, at its winter
                        convention in New York City.
                     
                     
                     "Ron was always gracious with his students, a kind presence in the journalism department
                        and a national force in college media through his long tenure as executive director
                        for CMA," journalism department chair David Arant said. "He will be missed by many."
                     
                     
                     Spielberger leaves behind a wife, Debbie, and a daughter, Robin, as well as thousands
                        of students and colleagues who have been taught and mentored by him.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Twitter chat for Grad students
                     
                     The Department of Journalism will host its will second Twitter chat for its graduate
                        students and faculty from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. Central, Thursday, November 19, 2015, using
                        #MeemanGrad .
                     
                     
                     We will be discussing current case studies in journalism that are making the news.
                        Bring your own ideas or come prepared to talk about current events.
                     
                     
                     Here are a few general guidelines for having a successful Twitter chat experience.
                        Show up with an open mind and enthusiasm for discussion, and it'll be great!
                     
                     
                     1. Make sure you have both a Twitter account and a way to follow along with the chat.
                        Some of the best tools are TweetChat, TweetDeck , HootSuite , and Twchat . Try to familiarize yourself with them prior to the chat; Twitter's internal search
                        will allow you to follow the hashtag, but you'll have to refresh the page yourself
                        and it's not as speedy as the tools listed.
                     
                     
                     2. Follow the hashtag for the chat. Our hashtag will be # MeemanGrad . Every tweet you send should include the hashtag so it becomes part of the conversation
                        and other people can see it.
                     
                     
                     3. There will be a moderator (Dr. Janoske, @mjresearch ), who will tweet out a greeting/welcome to start the chat and some questions to keep
                        the conversation moving during the chat. Make sure you're following her to keep up
                        with the conversation.
                     
                     
                     4. When you join the chat, especially if you're joining later in the hour, take a
                        few minutes to scroll back and read the conversation that has already happened. This
                        will give you a sense of what's been covered and the tone of the conversation to form
                        your own contribution.
                     
                     
                     5. When you do join the chat, be sure and introduce yourself! Don't forget to use
                        #MeemanGrad .
                     
                     
                     6. Retweeting or favoriting someone else's tweets are great ways to show support or
                        to indicate that you agree with their idea.
                     
                     
                     7. Engage one another in conversation! @ mentions (where you include someone else's
                        Twitter handle in your tweet in order to tweet directly to them) are a good way to
                        ask questions or keep the conversation going, but don't forget to include #MeemanGrad so everyone can follow along.
                     
                     
                     8. Don't be afraid to come up with your own contributions. We're excited to tweet
                        with you! (Use #MeemanGrad !)
                     
                     
                     If you have questions prior to the chat, feel free to reach out to Dr. Janoske and
                        ask.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     U of M student selected as one of AAF's 50 most Promising
                     
                     University of Memphis advertising major Jonel Turner has been selected as one of the
                        American Advertising Federation's 50 Most Promising Multicultural Students for 2016.
                     
                     
                     She will participate in the MPMS program February in New York City. A four-day industry
                        immersion, the agenda includes professional development workshops, agency visits and
                        a recruiter's expo.
                     
                     
                     Students from AAF's college chapter network were selected through an application process
                        that included essays, letters of recommendation, resume and specific academic requirements.
                     
                     
                     The 2016 MPMS class represents 21 states and 35 schools. Since 1997, more than 800
                        students have been a part of MPMS and many have advanced to hold mid- to upper- management
                        positions within the advertising industry. Jonel is the fourth University of Memphis
                        student to achieve this honor.
                     
                     
                     Leading agencies and companies have used the MPMS program as a recruitment tool including
                        Deutsch, General Mills, Leo Burnett, McCann Worldgroup, Omnicom Group, Publicis Groupe
                        and Starcom Mediavest Group. In 2015, more than half of the class was offered a full-time
                        position during or soon after the program.
                     
                     
                     Judges represented DigitasLBi, ESPN, General Mills, GSD&M, Lapiz, Omnicom Media Group,
                        Omnicom Group, Razorfish and Wieden+Kennedy. 
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Dr. Janoske to be Published
                     
                     Congratulations to faculty member Dr. Melissa Janoske, whose co-written paper "The
                        Double-Edged Crisis: Invisible Children's Social Media Response to the Kony 2012 Campaign,"
                        was accepted for publication in Public Relations Review.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Elle Perry curates "just City" Art Exhibit 
                     
                     Teen Appeal coordinator Elle Perry curated #SeeJustice, a multimedia art exhibit encouraging
                        a more just city, at Crosstown's CoMotion Studio in the Crosstown Neighborhood on
                        Sept. 25.
                     
                     
                     More than 200 people viewed the exhibit featuring several local artists focused on
                        the idea of creating empathy and a greater Memphis. "An empathic city is a just city,"
                        Perry said.
                     
                     
                     The exhibit was sponsored by Just City, a new nonprofit organization advocating for
                        a more just criminal justice system. "I think people and organizations in Memphis are taking steps in order to make the
                        city more just," Perry said. "Obviously Just City is one of those. Sometimes it just
                        takes awareness to spur people to action. That increases daily."
                     
                     
                     Local columnist and Journalism Department graduate David Waters featured Perry's exhibit
                        and Just City in The Commercial Appeal .
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     
                     RETIRED NAVY COMMANDER HIRED AS VISITING JOURNALISM PROFESSOR
                     
                     
                     U.S. Navy Commander Kim Marks retired from a 29-year career in the Navy in late August
                        and immediately joined the Department of Journalism as a visiting assistant professor
                        for the fall and spring semesters.
                     
                     
                     She brings her practical, real-world experience as U. S. Navy public affairs officer
                        to her teaching. Her most recent assignment was as the Public Affairs Officer Community
                        Manager in Millington, Tenn., where she helped to shape the future of the Navy's public
                        affairs enterprise.
                     
                     
                     Marks says that there is no better, more-credible teacher than someone who has walked
                        the path on which the student is embarking. This fall Marks is teaching classes in
                        media writing, public relations research and public relations writing.
                     
                     
                     In her previous assignments for the Navy served as director of the Navy Office of
                        Community Outreach at Millington; the public affairs officer aboard USS Nimitz; a
                        Pentagon press officer at the Navy Office of Information, in Washington, D.C.; and
                        journalist at Navy U.S. Forces Central Command/U.S. Fifth Fleet, in Manama, Bahrain.
                     
                     
                     Prior to joining the Navy, Marks worked as a freelance reporter for community newspapers
                        in Colorado and as an outdoor writer for the Tennessee Valley Authority at the Land
                        between the Lakes
                     
                     
                     Marks earned a B.A. in Communication from Roger Williams College and an M.A. in Mass
                        Communication & Media Studies from San Diego State University.
                     
                     
                     When she is not working, Marks enjoys spending time with her family, riding her motorcycle
                        and practicing Taekwondo.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     
                      Departmental open House
                     
                     The Department of Journalism hosts its annual open house from 12:45-2 p.m., Tuesday,
                        Oct. 6, in Meeman Building's atrium.
                     
                     
                     Current and future students are invited to learn more about the department and its
                        programs. Faculty members will be on hand to discuss majoring in advertising, news
                        and public relations.
                     
                     
                     Students from the university's professional media clubs, Advertising Federation of
                        America, Public Relations Student Society of America, Society of Professional Journalists
                        and National Association of Black Journalists, will share their programs and projects
                        with students who are interested in participating in these organizations.
                     
                     
                     Students can also learn about opportunities to participate in the university's student
                        media at booths hosted by The Daily Helmsman , the student-run newspaper; Meeman 901, the student-run public relations firm; and
                        Insight , the student television newscast.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     
                     news Engagement day
                     
                     University of Memphis students and staff are invited to celebrate in News Engagement
                        Day, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., Tuesday, Oct. 6, at the Department of Journalism booth
                        on the University Center Alumni Mall lawn.
                     
                     
                     Participating students, staff and faculty will be able to take photos with a Polaroid-style
                        whiteboard and will be asked to use #NewsEngagementDay and #Memphis to share their
                        photos on social media with a caption about how or why they engage in news.
                     
                     
                     Members of the student strategic media firm Meeman 901 and the University of Memphis
                        chapter of the National Association of Black Journalists are partnering with the department
                        to boost student involvement in the event.
                     
                     
                     The Association for Education in Journalism and Mass Communication, the sponsor of
                        News Engagement Day, encourages people to "read, watch, like, tweet, post, text, email,
                        listen to, or comment on news," in an effort to create a more informed society.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      Congratulations Chris Porter
                     
                     Congratulations to University of Memphis Department of Journalism graduate Chris Porter (B.A. '12), who was recently hired as the Downtown Memphis Commission's new full-time
                        marketing coordinator. Porter will assist DMC's vice president of marketing and communications,
                        Leslie Gower.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Journalism Internship Fair
                     
                     The journalism department's first Internship Fair will be Monday, Sept. 21, from 12:30
                        p.m. until 4 p.m. in the Meeman Journalism atrium. Students are encouraged to come
                        dressed to impress and bring business cards and copies of their cover letters and
                        résumés.
                     
                     
                     At 12:45 p.m. in the adjacent Meeman 100 lecture hall, a panel will discuss the importance
                        of internships to careers. Panel members include Taylor Smith , City Gear and the New Southern; Larry Rice , Rice, Amundsen & Caperton, PLLC; and Rhonnie Brewer , Sports Twist and Socialite Approved.
                     
                     
                     Beginning at 1 p.m., more than a dozen Memphis news, advertising, public relations
                        and media outlets will have tables in the atrium where students can talk one-on-one
                        with potential employers.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                     Meet Dr. Roxane Coche
                     
                     
                     For newly arrived Assistant Professor Roxane Coche (Dr. C to her students), her love
                        for sports has been central to both her professional career and her education.
                     
                     
                     As a former broadcast reporter and producer in France, her home country, she travelled
                        the world to cover some of the biggest sporting events – from sailing to soccer and
                        tennis.
                     
                     
                     She settled in the United States to complete a doctoral degree focusing on gender
                        issues in sports media content at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
                     
                     
                     Having found a new home at the University of Memphis, Dr. C will help develop the
                        broadcast program, teach the entrepreneurial media class and create new courses in
                        sports journalism. With her international background, she is also eager to start study
                        abroad programs to offer Memphis students chances to discover more of the world.
                     
                     
                     Outside of work, Dr. C still lives and breathes both sports and television. She is
                        currently on the lookout for a women's soccer team in Memphis but gets her soccer
                        fix through televised games and an old PlayStation 3. When live soccer is unavailable
                        on TV, she watches sitcoms, dramas and crime shows, partly to improve her English
                        skills. Around age 15 she, learned English watching the TV shows Friends and Alias.
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     Journalism alumni club awards dinner
                     
                     The U of M Journalism Alumni Club invites you to the Outstanding Journalism Alumni
                        Awards Dinner Oct. 14 at the Holiday Inn on campus.
                     
                     
                     The event begins with registration and social hour from 6-7 p.m. followed by the dinner
                        and ceremony beginning at 7.
                     
                     
                     The Charles E. Thornton Awards will be presented to Mike Pennington (B.A. '72) journalist
                        & communications counselor, PenNotes LLC, and James Overstreet (B.A. '92), executive
                        editor, The Memphis Daily News.
                     
                     
                     U of M journalism professor and WREG-TV political commentator Otis Sanford will receive
                        the Herbert Lee Williams Award, while Le Bonheur Children's Hospital digital marketing
                        manager Amanda Mauck (B.A. '04) will receive the Outstanding Young Alumna Award.
                     
                     
                     The Emerging Journalist Award will be presented to current journalism student Aidan
                        Porter.
                     
                     
                     The cost is $60 per person or $500 per table of 10. Please RSVP by Oct. 12 to Shannon
                        Miller at semiller@memphis.edu or 901-678-3043.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Meet Dr. Robert Byrd
                     
                     Dr. Robert Byrd joined the Department of Journalism as an assistant professor this
                        fall and is teaching the Visual Journalism and the Multimedia News Lab classes.
                     
                     
                     Last year Dr. Byrd served as a visiting instructor at the University of Southern Mississippi,
                        where he earned his Ph.D. in mass communication in 2014. Previously Byrd worked as
                        a sports writer, reporter and editor at several newspapers including the Meridian
                        (Mississippi) Star and the Covington (Georgia) News.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Byrd's research centers on LGBTQ representations in the media. In August he presented
                        two research papers at the Association for Education in Journalism and Mass Communication
                        Annual Conference in San Francisco.
                     
                     
                     This summer, Dr. Byrd directed "Remembering Hurricane Katrina," a multimedia journalism
                        workshop for 16 high school students at University of Southern Mississippi. The week-long
                        residential camp was funded by a grant from the Dow Jones News Fund.
                     
                     
                     When he's not working, he enjoys watching college football, and you can always catch
                        him cheering on Mississippi State, his undergraduate alma mater. Byrd says that spending
                        time exploring Memphis through photography with his partner and their dog is also
                        a favorite pastime, as well as eating some of the best barbecue Memphis has to offer.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Call for Nominations for Pennington Award
                     
                     The University of Memphis Department Of Journalism invites current students, faculty
                        and alumni to nominate a faculty member for the D. Mike Pennington Award for Outstanding
                        Mentoring. The inaugural presentation of the award will be made at the Journalism
                        Alumni Awards Banquet, 7 p.m., Wednesday, Oct. 14, at the University of Memphis Holiday
                        Inn.
                     
                     
                     Faculty members nominated for the Pennington award should demonstrate exceptional
                        mentoring and advising skills and serve as an exemplary guide and mentor to students
                        during their learning experience. Eligible nominees are current faculty members who
                        have served the department for three years or more. Pamela Denney, Darrin Devault, Joe Hayden, Tom Hrach, Candy Justice, Otis Sanford,
                           Ron Spielberger, Sandy Utt, Bob Willis and Jin Yang are the eligible faculty members this year. A committee appointed by CCFA Dean Richard
                        Ranta will review nominations and choose the winner.
                     
                     
                     The award honors distinguished alumnus D. Mike Pennington, Class of 1972, and is the
                        first mentoring award in the College of Communication and Fine Arts, as well as the
                        first faculty award in Journalism. The award was created by Pennington's family in
                        honor of his dedication to helping others and his loyalty to his alma mater. Serving
                        for 25 years as a corporate communicator and 15 years as a business magazine journalist,
                        editor and photographer, primarily in trucking and its affiliated industries, he built
                        a prestigious career.
                     
                     
                     Nominations are due Sept. 15 and must include a statement of support in 50 words or
                        less saying why the faculty member has been an outstanding mentor and advisor to students
                        in the Department of Journalism. Please email your nomination and statement of support
                        to Department of Journalism Administrative Assistant Teri Hayslett at tdhysltt@memphis.edu .
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Department Plans Graduate Twitter Chat
                     
                     Participating in a Twitter Chat
                     
                     Our first Twitter chat as a graduate student body and faculty will be Thursday, August
                        27, 2015 from 7:30 to 8:30 p.m. Central, using #MeemanGrad
                     
                     Here are a few general guidelines for having a successful Twitter chat experience.
                        Show up with an open mind and enthusiasm for discussion, and it'll be great! We're
                        doing this to help our graduate students get to know one another, to build community
                        within the department, and to give you another place to ask and answer questions you
                        might have, so anything you have to contribute will be great.
                     
                     
                     1. Make sure you have both a Twitter account and a way to follow along with the chat.
                        Some of the best tools are TweetChat , TweetDeck , HootSuite , and Twchat . Try to familiarize yourself with them prior to the chat; Twitter's internal search
                        will allow you to follow the hashtag, but you'll have to refresh the page yourself
                        and it's not as speedy as the tools listed.
                     
                     
                     2. Follow the hashtag for the chat. Our hashtag will be #MeemanGrad . You'll search for this to find and follow the conversation, and every tweet you
                        send should include the hashtag so it becomes part of the conversation and other people
                        can see it.
                     
                     
                     3. There will be a moderator (Dr. Janoske, @mjresearch ), who will tweet out a greeting/welcome to start the chat and some questions to keep
                        the conversation moving during the chat. Make sure you're following her to keep up
                        with the conversation.
                     
                     
                     4. When you join the chat, especially if you're joining later in the hour, take a
                        few minutes to scroll back and read the conversation that has already happened. This
                        will give you a sense of what's been covered and the tone of the conversation to form
                        your own contribution.
                     
                     
                     5. When you do join the chat, be sure and introduce yourself! Don't forget to use
                        #MeemanGrad .
                     
                     
                     6.  Retweeting or favoriting someone else's tweets are great ways to show support
                        or to indicate that you agree with their idea.
                     
                     
                     7.  Engage one another in conversation! @ mentions (where you include someone else's
                        Twitter handle in your tweet in order to tweet directly to them) are a good way to
                        ask questions or keep the conversation going, but don't forget to include #MeemanGrad so everyone can follow along.
                     
                     
                     8. Don't be afraid to come up with your own contributions. If you have a question
                        or comment or something you'd like to say relevant to being a Meeman grad student
                        (or wherever the conversation has taken us), jump in! We're excited to tweet with
                        you! (Use #MeemanGrad !)
                     
                     
                     If you have questions prior to the chat, feel free to reach out to Dr. Janoske  and ask.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Journalism Junior Wins National Journalism Award
                     
                     University of Memphis journalism major and Daily Helmsman reporter Jonathan Capriel received the Betty Gage Holland Award for excellence in
                        college journalism on July 28.
                     
                     
                     The James M. Cox Jr. Institute for Journalism Innovation, Management and Leadership at the Grady College of Journalism and Mass Communication, and the Student Press Law Center (SPLC) made the award to Capriel on July 28 during a meeting of the Management Seminar for
                        College News Editors.
                     
                     
                     "The Helmsman's Jonathan Capriel reports in depth on several issues of consequence,
                        from sorority hazing to parking tickets to gender pay gaps ," said Kent Middleton, director of the Cox Institute. "Capriel exemplifies persistent,
                        creative pursuit of the truth, seeking information from clerks, legal counsel, students
                        and documents."
                     
                     
                     Frank LoMonte, executive director of the SPLC, said Capriel's work was "in the best
                        tradition of the inquisitive accountability journalism that all communities need."
                     
                     
                     "His body of work for the Helmsman exemplifies the ethic that gives journalism its
                        unique, irreplaceable value. He takes the time to learn and explain his subject, he
                        pushes back hard against the slammed door, and he skeptically questions every claim
                        that's too good to be true," LoMonte said.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     meeman media workshops
                     
                     The Meeman Media Workshops are being postponed until later this summer. Please check
                        here or on our Facebook page for details on when the Workshops will be rescheduled.
                        Thank you for your interest in the Meeman Media Workshops.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     AEJMC TOP student PAPER
                     
                     Congratulations to Barry K. Parks , whose paper, "Injunction Junction: A Theory - and Precedent-Based Argument for the
                        Elimination of Speech Codes at American Public Universities," won Top Student Paper
                        in the  Association for Education in Journalism and Mass Communication (AEJMC) Law and Policy Division. Barry will be presenting his research at the AEJMC Annual
                        Conference in San Francisco in August.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     hearst foundations awards
                     
                     Congratulations to University of Memphis senior and The Daily Helmsman editor Joshua Cannon on winning 10th place in the college breaking news writing category of the 55th annual
                        William Randolph Hearst Foundation's Journalism Awards Program . There were 80 entries in this competition, submitted from 46 schools. Read his award
                        winning story here . 
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Congratulations to the 2015 Journalism Awards and Scholarship Winners
                     
                     Barry Parks
                     
                     Outstanding Graduate Student
                     
                     David Morris
                     
                     Outstanding Graduate Student
                     
                     Kayla Stringer
                     
                     Outstanding Public Relations Student
                     
                     Curtis A. Jolley
                     
                     Outstanding Online Public Relations Student
                     
                     Aidan Porter
                     
                     Outstanding Advertising Student
                     
                     Elizabeth Sain
                     
                     Outstanding Broadcast News Student
                     
                     Micaela Watts
                     
                     Otis Sanford Outstanding Newspaper Magazine Student
                     
                     ACHIEVEMENT AWARDS
                     
                     Aidan Porter
                     
                     American Advertising Federation Student Chapter Leadership Award
                     
                     Joshua Cannon
                     
                     1st place Elinor Grusin Writing Award
                     
                     Patrick Lantrip
                     
                     1st place Elinor Grusin Writing Award
                     
                     Jacqueline Quintanar
                     
                     2nd place Elinor Grusin Writing Award
                     
                     Paula Anderson
                     
                     3rd place Elinor Grusin Writing Award
                     
                     Britney McGhee
                     
                     NABJ Ida B. Wells Award for Outstanding Leadership
                     
                     Rachel Brandon
                     
                     Public Relations Textbook Award 2015
                     
                     Desmond Catron
                     
                     Judith G. Clabes Outstanding High School Journalist
                     
                     Erin Aulfinger
                     
                     Tennessee High School Press Association Best Sports Story
                     
                     Kira Tucker
                     
                     Tennessee High School Press Association Best Feature Story
                     
                     Joshua Bolden
                     
                     Lurene Kelley Video Story Award
                     
                     Catrell Maclin
                     
                     Lurene Kelley Video Story Award (2nd Place)
                     
                     Michael Robinson
                     
                     The Saul Brown Press-Scimitar Award For excellence in photography 2015
                     
                     Jonathan A Capriel
                     
                     The Saul Brown Press-Scimitar Award For excellence in investigative reporting 2015
                     
                     Joshua Cannon
                     
                     Editor-in-Chief, Editor-in-Chief 2014-2015 In deep appreciation for his leadership
                        at The Daily Helmsman
                     
                     
                     Jonathan A Capriel
                     
                     1st place Marc Perrusquia Investigative Journalism Award
                     
                     Omer Yusuf
                     
                     2nd place Marc Perrusquia Investigative Journalism Award
                     
                     Amber Hampton
                     
                     3rd place Marc Perrusquia Investigative Journalism Award
                     
                     SCHOLARSHIP WINNERS
                     
                     John Klyce
                     
                     Frank Ahlgren Scholarship
                     
                     Madison Pendergrass
                     
                     Frank Ahlgren Scholarship
                     
                     Rachel Brandon
                     
                     Billy Jones Scholarship
                     
                     Jerrica M James
                     
                     John Paul Jones Scholarship
                     
                     Catrell Le'Darius Maclin
                     
                     Kathy Krieger Memorial Scholarship
                     
                     Michael Robinson
                     
                     Joe & Lila Norton Scholarship
                     
                     Christopher Brian Darling
                     
                     Eleanor B. O'Neill Scholarship
                     
                     Charles William Bettendorf
                     
                     Ken Sossaman Scholarship
                     
                     Hannah Nicole Johnson
                     
                     Marge Thrasher Scholarship
                     
                     Joshua Cannon
                     
                     Gridiron - John Hurd Scholarship
                     
                     Amanda Marie Hrach
                     
                     Gridiron - Jim White Scholarship
                     
                     Brittney Gathen
                     
                     Gridiron - Archie Quinn Scholarship
                     
                     Mariah Kleinjan
                     
                     Gridiron - Wayne Trotter Scholarship
                     
                     Aisha Pili Naantaanbuu
                     
                     Gridiron - Mike McGee Scholarship
                     
                     Jonathan Capriel
                     
                     Variety Club
                     
                     
                     
                      Hayden Awarded Faudree Professorship
                     
                     The Faudree Professorship is a three-year rewards program that makes investments in
                        prized faculty. Mr. and Mrs. Jabie Hardin established the professorship in regard
                        for Dr. Ralph Faudree, past provost for the University of Memphis.
                     
                     
                     This year, the program decided to make an investment in Dr. Joseph Hayden . The professorship grants monetary support for his research, including his interest
                        in presidential- press relations, a topic on which he has authored three books.
                     
                     
                     "I'm not sure yet how I'll use the support funds for all three years. But next year
                        I'd like to cover both parties' conventions during the 2016 presidential campaign,
                        so that'll be an obvious target," explained Hayden.
                     
                     
                     Full and associate tenured professors who have served the university for ten years
                        are eligible for the professorship. The program aims to reach the university's goal
                        of becoming a top urban research institution by retaining the best and brightest faculty
                        members. Faculty, department chairs and other college administrators may nominate
                        eligible recipients. Hayden received his nomination from Richard R. Ranta , dean of
                        College of Communication and Fine Arts.
                     
                     
                     Hayden serves as the journalism department's graduate coordinator and as an associate
                        professor. His book titles include Covering Clinton , A Dubya in the Headlights , Negotiating the Press , and The Little Grammar Book .
                     
                     
                     "It was a nice surprise, and I'm honored to get it. Dr. Faudree was a renowned scholar
                        and a remarkable professor, so I know I still have a long way to go to live up to
                        his record of productivity," explained Hayden.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Department of Journalism offers more summer courses
                     
                     In conjunction with the university encouraging more summer classes, the journalism
                        department is increasing undergraduate summer courses. Students may register for them
                        as soon as possible. Here is a listing:
                     
                     
                     JOUR 1700: Survey of Mass Communication
                     
                     JOUR 2121: Media Writing (online)
                     
                     JOUR 3400: Intro Public Relations (online)
                     
                     JOUR 3421: Public Relations Writing
                     
                     JOUR 3900: Visual Media
                     
                     JOUR 4700: Mass Communication Law
                     
                     JOUR 4930: Media Internship
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        News and Events
                        
                           
                              
                               Facebook
                               Twitter
                               LinkedIn
                               YouTube
                              
                                 
                                  Periscope
                               Storify
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply to our Undergraduate Program
                              Apply and major in one of Journalism and Strategic Media's four professional, hands-on
                                 majors.
                              
                           
                           
                              Apply to our Masters Program
                              Earn your degree with one of our three professional M.A. emphases, or our Research
                                 emphasis.
                              
                           
                           
                              Our Student Media
                              Read articles in the Daily Helmsman, watch Tiger News broadcasts, engage with our
                                 students' community-based class projects and more.
                              
                           
                           
                              Email Us
                              Need more information? Click the link above to email us your questions.
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/11/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/jrsm/news/index.php
