http://www.memphis.edu/jrsm/media/index.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Journalism and Strategic Media
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        B.A. Program
                        M.A. Program
                        People
                        Syllabi
                        Student Resources
                        News
                     
                     
                        
                           Student Media
                           
                              
                                 
                                 The Daily Helmsman
                                 Tiger News
                                 Memphis Mirror
                                 Meeman 901 Strategies
                                 WUMR
                                 Student Media Archive
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	JRSM
                              	
                        
                           	Media
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Student Media
                     
                     Journalism and Strategic Media students have the opportunity to work in several student
                        media outlets during their studies. Student media allow for work on real-world stories
                        and projects and with real clients. The student media experience helps to launch internships
                        and careers when students enter the job market.
                     
                     
                     Work at some student media outlets can be used for Student Media Practicum courser
                        credit; others are incorporated into journalism courses. The listings below explain
                        each outlet and how to get involved.
                     
                     
                     The Daily Helmsman 
                     
                     The Daily Helmsman , an independent, award winning student-run newspaper begun as a protest newspaper
                        in 1931 called The Tiger Rag , has been published continuously since. The name was changed to The Helmsman in 1972, and again in 1981 to The Daily Helmsman , when it began publishing four days a week. It's available online at dailyhelmsman.com . Students make all the editorial decisions. The newspaper is financially independent
                        except for a contribution from the Student Activity Fee, which makes it free to students,
                        faculty and staff. The Daily Helmsman employs a paid staff of about 30 students and three full-time professionals—Candy
                        Justice, general manager; Bob Willis, advertising manager, and Sharon Whitaker, bookkeeper.
                        Email The Daily Helmsman at dailyhelmsman@gmail.com or follow The Helmsman Facebook and Twitter .
                     
                     
                     Top of Page
                     
                     
                     
                     Tiger News 
                     
                     
                           
                     
                     Tiger News is the weekly television newscast produced by students at the University
                        of Memphis. Our four-part mission includes:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        to inform, enlighten and entertain the students, faculty and staff of the University
                        
                        to provide training for student journalists
                        
                        to give a voice to different perspectives
                        
                         to uphold high journalistic standards
                        
                     
                     
                     Students produce the show entirely: from finding stories to shooting and editing them,
                        from organizing the newscast to filming it and uploading it online. As such, many
                        positions are open: producer, assistant director, anchor, crew member (audio technician,
                        tape operator, prompter operator, camera operator), social media content writer, video
                        uploader and website content editor. Students can wear several hats every week and
                        change positions to broaden their range and improve their skills. All positions are
                        open yearlong, except anchors. Anchor auditions will be held in the beginning of each
                        semester.
                     
                     
                     Our main purpose is to give students a place to practice and deepen broadcast journalism
                        skills while learning to work as a team. Students can participate in Tiger News as
                        early as their first semester and toward the end of their college career, they can
                        earn credit with Tiger News through JOUR 4639, TV News Producing, or JOUR 4940, Student
                        Media Practicum.
                     
                     
                     Upper-level students should help train the less experienced ones as all students work
                        cooperatively in a collegial atmosphere, the way they will be expected to do in their
                        broadcast journalism career.
                     
                     
                     Top of Page
                     
                     
                     
                     MEMPHIS MIRROR 
                     
                     The Memphis Mirror is a project of Multimedia News Lab, the capstone class for the
                        Journalism major. The goal of the ongoing project is to hold a mirror to the city
                        and reflect the various cultures, religions, identities, abilities and truths Memphis
                        offers. At the Mirror, students rely on various media platforms—audio, video, maps,
                        photography and infographics—to tell the stories of Memphis. Follow us on Twitter
                        @MemphisMirror, Facebook or Instagram @MemphisMirror.
                     
                     
                     Top of Page
                     
                     
                     
                      MEEMAN 901 STRATEGIES 
                     
                     Meeman 901 Strategies is the department's student-run strategic communication firm.
                        The firm takes on both pro bono and paying clients every semester and offers a range
                        of services, including website design and upkeep; public relations strategy; social
                        media content creation and monitoring; advertising and branding strategy and design;
                        copywriting and editing; visual and graphic design elements including logos and any
                        other strategic communication needs of an organization.
                     
                     
                     Past clients have included the Memphis chapter of the American Heart Association,
                        the University of Memphis chapter of the Public Relations Student Society of America,
                        the University of Memphis ROTC and Memphis Light, Gas, and Water.
                     
                     
                     Working with Meeman 901 Strategies can be done either for course/practicum credit
                        or on a volunteer basis at both the undergraduate and graduate levels. Students who
                        wish to get course/practicum credit must apply for a position within the firm the
                        semester before they wish to receive credit.
                     
                     
                     Top of Page
                     
                     
                     
                     WUMR 
                     
                     Broadcasting in stereo with 25,000 watts of power, WUMR is the only exclusive jazz
                        outlet in the Memphis metro area. The station offers a mix of contemporary and traditional
                        jazz, as well as a sampling of fusion, Blues, Latin, and new age Jazz. The station
                        also serves the Mid-South community with unique educational, sports, and community
                        service programming.
                     
                     
                     WUMR has been the University of Memphis broadcasting outlet since 1979, when Southwestern
                        at Memphis (now Rhodes College) sold one of its two radio licenses to then Memphis
                        State University. WSMS-FM 91.7, carrying the Memphis State call letters, was created
                        as an all-jazz station. Although the call letters changed to WUMR, when Memphis State
                        became the University of Memphis on July 1, 1994, the station, which is now known
                        as WUMR "The Jazz Lover" U 92-FM, has stayed true to the all-jazz format during its
                        30-year history. WUMR is part of the College of Communication and Fine Arts' (CCFA)
                        Department of Communication. An element of the station's mission is to train communication
                        and journalism students in broadcasting.
                     
                     
                     Top of Page
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Student Media
                        
                           
                              
                              The Daily Helmsman
                              Tiger News
                              Memphis Mirror
                              Meeman 901 Strategies
                              WUMR
                              Student Media Archive
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply to our Undergraduate Program
                              Apply and major in one of Journalism and Strategic Media's four professional, hands-on
                                 majors.
                              
                           
                           
                              Apply to our Masters Program
                              Earn your degree with one of our three professional M.A. emphases, or our Research
                                 emphasis.
                              
                           
                           
                              Our Student Media
                              Read articles in the Daily Helmsman, watch Tiger News broadcasts, engage with our
                                 students' community-based class projects and more.
                              
                           
                           
                              Email Us
                              Need more information? Click the link above to email us your questions.
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 8/22/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/jrsm/media/index.php
