http://www.memphis.edu/me/research/index.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Mechanical Engineering
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Programs
                        Students
                        Faculty
                        Research
                        Alumni
                        News
                        Accreditation
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	ME
                              	
                        
                           	research
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Mechanical Engineering Research
                     
                     The mechanical engineering department at the University of Memphis has an active research
                        program with the graduate study and research categorized under two basic areas of
                        specialty - thermo/fluid and applied mechanics/materials. The department has identified
                        manufacturing and materials and energy as key areas of strategic growth for the future.
                        The programs of study are flexible and can be adjusted to fit personal needs and interests.
                        The curriculum is designed to assist individuals who seek professional careers as
                        advanced engineers, researchers, or teachers.
                     
                     
                     Examples of research currently ongoing in the department include: Structural health
                        monitoring, Packaging, Biomaterials and Biomechanics, Computational Mechanics and
                        Computational Fluid Dynamics, Energy, Biofuels (production and testing), Low Gravity
                        Fluid Management and cryogenics, Gas Turbine Heat Transfer and Gas Turbine Combustion.
                        These research projects have been funded by a wide variety of sources such as Department
                        of Energy (DOE), National Science Foundation (NSF), National Aeronautics and Space
                        Administration (NASA), National Institute of Health (NIH), and biomedical and consumer
                        product companies (e.g.,  Smith & Nephew, Richards, Inc., Wright Medical Technology,
                        Inc., Schering-Plough HealthCare Products, True Temper Sports, Select Comfort, Inc.
                        etc.). Graduates of our program receive excellent training in research and development,
                        and have gone on to demonstrate excellence in their chosen careers having reached
                        the highest levels of professional achievements. 
                     
                     
                     Listed below are examples of some ongoing projects. Please contact the faculty directly
                        if interested in these projects.
                     
                     
                     Low Gravity Fluid Physics (Dr. Jeffrey G. Marchetta and  Dr. John I Hochstein) The next generation of manned space missions, such as a mission to the Moon or Mars,
                        will require new technologies to manage fluids in low gravity.  In space, fluids behave
                        in strange and unfamiliar ways.  When a person fills up a cup with water on earth,
                        the water settles to the bottom of the cup because of gravity. Read More ...
                     
                     University of Memphis Industrial Assessment Center (Dr. Jeffrey G. Marchetta) The University of Memphis Industrial Assessment Center Program is part of the Tennessee
                        3-Star Industrial Assessment Center (IAC) which has been active since 2008.  The IAC
                        is a federally sponsored industrial energy efficiency program provided by the U.S.
                        Department of Energy (DOE) Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (EERE).
                        Read More ...
                     
                     Material failure is studied with novel Big-Data analyses (Dr. Gary Qi and Dr. Steve
                           Wayne) Analytics of 'Big Data' has been so promising and useful that it is thought to be
                        a frontier for innovation, competition, and productivity in business. The concept
                        of big data is not new in the fields of traditional science and engineering since
                        engineers and scientists have been dealing with it for many generations. Read More ...
                     
                     Navy supports U of M Mechanical Engineering thru STTR program on helicopter reliability
                           (Dr. Gary Qi and Dr. Steve Wayne)         Rotorcraft structures are subject to damage accumulation due to the harsh environment
                        and conditions in which they operate. Components are currently designed using a safe-life
                        approach, in which analytical methods are used to calculate the predicted service
                        life of components. The major disadvantage is that the components are retired from
                        use after a specified number of service hours, regardless of the remaining useful
                        life of the component, and consequently some parts are not utilized to their full
                        potential of useful life. Efforts are currently underway to transition from a safe-life
                        design approach to a more practical conditional maintenance approach, in order to
                        achieve optimum service life out of structural components. Read More ...
                     
                     
                     
                     Analyses of Experimental Datasets of Properties of Poly (Methyl  Methacrylate Bone
                           Cement ( Gladius Lewis ) Poly (methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) bone cement (FIGURE 1) is widely used in orthopaedic
                        surgery for applications such as fixation of total joint replacements (TJRs), augmentation
                        of fractured vertebral bodies, and drug delivery. Read More ...
                     
                     Development of Methodologies for Selection of Antibiotic-Loaded Acrylic Bone Cement ( Gladius Lewis ) The prophylactic use of antibiotic-loaded poly (methyl methacrylate) bone cement (ALBC)
                        is common in cemented total joint replacement (TJR) surgery as a means of reducing
                        the potential for prosthetic joint infection following the procedure. Read More ...
                     
                      
                     
                     RESEARCH FACILITIES 
                     
                     CFD Laboratory : The Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) laboratory at Memphis State University serves
                        as the focal point for research on computational methods of modeling fluid flow and
                        for using computational models to investigate flow dynamics. Since its inception in
                        1992, the physical assets of the laboratory have grown to include several high-speed
                        workstations and personal computers connected to form an efficient computing network
                        that includes terminals, hard copy devices and access to other computing facilities
                        on campus. The laboratory has also been used as a "front end" to access supercomputers
                        at various sites across the country to perform research with particularly high computational
                        demands.
                     
                     
                       Materials Laboratory: The focus of this laboratory is to provide facilities for undergraduate instruction
                        and to support research activities. To this end, the laboratory is equipped with state-of-the-art
                        mechanical testing systems; high-powered optical microscopes; fracture toughness measurement
                        systems; a rotating-beam fatigue test system; a corrosion rate measurement system;
                        furnaces; metallographic specimen preparation stations; hardness testers; and a creep
                        tester.
                     
                     
                     Fluid Dynamics Laboratory : This is mainly a research laboratory for faculty and graduate students. Currently,
                        the major component of the laboratory is a standard ELD Model 406(B) Open Circuit
                        Wind Tunnel with a speed range from 10 fps to 150 fps in a 2'x2'x4' plexiglass test
                        section. It is also equipped with several flow visualization and aerodynamic force
                        measurement devices. Particle Image Velocimetry (PIV) and Hot Wire Anemometry (HWA)
                        systems are available for flow measurements as well as standard pitot probes and shear
                        stress sensors. Please see FRC (FLOW) for additional details.
                     
                     
                     Computational Mechanics and Design (CMD) Laboratory : The CMD laboratory is equipped with computing and experimental research facilities
                        to conduct research in various areas of applied mechanics and design, which include
                        composite material mechanics, finite element analysis, computer simulation of dynamic
                        systems, seismic structural response, nonlinear dynamics and chaos, and computer-aided
                        design of mechanical systems. The CMD laboratory has connection to local campus computer
                        network and direct access to the supercomputers. Finite element software such as ALGOR
                        and ANSYS are utilized in the laboratory. The laboratory has supported research efforts
                        funded by United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), NASA, US Navy,
                        and True Temper Sports Company. Examples of research conducted include three dimensional
                        finite element analysis of helical gears; computer modeling of gear system including
                        bearings, shafts and housing; optimum design of transmission for minimum vibration
                        and noise; finite element analysis of pipeline under seismic loading; and design and
                        analysis of composite golf club for better performance. Please see CIDM (Design) and MAR (Acoustics) for additional details.
                     
                      
                     
                     FURTHER INFORMATION
                     
                     Graduate students interested in the research in the department are encouraged to apply
                        for Fall or Spring admission. Financial aid in terms of assistantships and fellowships
                        may be available for deserving candidates. Additional information regarding graduate
                        studies in the department of Mechanical Engineering may be obtained by contacting
                        the Coordinator of Graduate Studies Dr. Teong Tan at (901) 678-2173 or by email at ttan@memphis.edu . The facsimile number fro the department is (901) 678-5459.
                     
                     
                     Information regarding application forms and deadlines may be obtained from Graduate
                        Admissions at (901) 678-3685.
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              About
                              
                           
                           
                              ME News
                              
                           
                           
                              Herff College of Engineering
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 4/25/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/me/research/index.php
