http://www.memphis.edu/nursing/partnerships/
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			The Loewenberg College of Nursing
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About Us
                        Programs
                        Students
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Research
                        Partnerships
                        Alumni
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Loewenberg College of Nursing
                              	
                        
                           	Partnerships
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Partnerships
                     
                     LCON forges productive partnerships in Memphis community and beyond.
                     
                     Dedicated Educational Units in Memphis Regional Medical Center, Methodist University Hospital, and Delta Medical
                        are established to enhance clinical education.
                     
                     
                     Nursing Residency Program in partnership with St. Jude Hospital that helps graduates
                        to transition into professional nursing practice.
                     
                     
                     Baptist Health care has provided fellowship for the Executive MSN program to prepare
                        nurse leaders at bedside.
                     
                     
                     The LCON has over 300 clinical affiliations in the region in support both undergraduate
                        and graduate student practicum experience.
                     
                     
                     Globally, Jining Medical University and Southern Medical University in China have
                        collaborated with LCON to prepare BSN and MSN graduates, develop nursing faculty,
                        and transform nursing curriculum in line with AACN essentials.
                     
                     
                     Each semester, our Community Health students spend a significant amount of time in
                        the community, making a difference every day, to highlight:
                     
                     
                     American Red Cross
                     
                     Since its founding in 1881 by visionary leader Clara Barton, the American Red Cross
                        has been the nation's premier emergency response organization. As part of a worldwide
                        movement that offers neutral humanitarian care to the victims of war, the American
                        Red Cross distinguishes itself by also aiding victims of devastating natural disasters.
                        Over the years, the organization has expanded its services, always with the aim of
                        preventing and relieving suffering.
                     
                     
                     Baptist Trinity Home Care
                     
                     Baptist Trinity provides nursing services to patients who are not ill enough to be
                        in the hospital but still require skilled nursing care. Our nursing students were
                        able to spend time with home care nurses and learn about the role and function of
                        home care nurses in providing professional nursing in patients own homes, and go out
                        on patient visits.
                     
                     
                     Birthright of Memphis, Inc.
                     
                     Birthright helps any girl or woman, regardless of age, race, creed, marital or economic
                        status, who feels distressed by an unplanned pregnancy, by giving its services free
                        of charge. A tax-exempt, charitable organization, Birthright exists because of the
                        financial and moral support of its donors and volunteers. It is independent, interdenominational,
                        and not affiliated with any religious or political group or public agency.
                     
                     
                     Blood Pressure Screenings with the UofM Student Health Center
                     
                     Working with the UofM Student Health Center, our nursing students set up in various
                        locations on campus and provided blood pressure screenings and educational information
                        to students, faculty, and staff.
                     
                     
                     CPR/AED Awareness classes for Shelby County Employees
                     
                     The Assisi Foundation received a grant to place Automated External Defibrillators
                        (AED's) in all Shelby County buildings. As part of this grant, our students were asked
                        to develop and then present classes for the Shelby County Employees which is an awareness
                        course that provides awareness of how to deal with choking, when and how to perform
                        CPR, and when and how to use the AED.
                     
                     
                     Crossroads Hospice
                     
                     Crossroads Hospice provides quality hospice care through comfort, dignity and understanding,
                        to patients and their families, in their homes, hospital, long-term care facility,
                        or where ever they reside. Our nursing students spent time with hospice nurses learning
                        about their role and functions, and going on patient visits.
                     
                     
                     DeNeuville Learning Center
                     
                     DeNeuville Learning Center is a program of House of the Good Shepherd of Memphis run
                        by the Sisters of the Good Shepherd whose mission is to assist women of all backgrounds
                        and cultures in learning the skills needed to make positive choices for themselves
                        and their families. DeNeuville offers a variety of classes and many of the women are
                        working toward achieving their GED's. Our nursing students were invited to present
                        health teaching on various topics for the women.
                     
                     
                     Educational presentations for school age kids through the Grizzlies Foundation
                     
                     One of functions of the Grizzlies Charitable Foundation is to foster collaboration
                        among organizations for the most effective delivery of opportunities to urban youth
                        through mentoring, sports and education programs. Through the Foundation our nursing
                        students have provided several educational sessions to middle school age children
                        on topics such as, "How to Say No to Drugs, Alcohol and Tobacco" and "Health Professions".
                     
                     
                     Memphis Union Mission
                     
                     Memphis Union Mission ministers to the physical, spiritual, and emotional needs of
                        men who are homeless, addicted, and in crisis. Our nursing students provided blood
                        pressure and eye screenings and volunteered to serve lunch to the men. Click here for information to donate supplies .
                     
                     
                     Methodist Alliance Home Care and Hospice
                     
                     Methodist Alliance provides professional nursing services to patients who are not
                        ill enough to be in the hospital but still require skilled nursing services. They
                        also provide Hospice services to patients and their families. Our nursing students
                        were able to spend time with home care and hospice nurses and learn about the role
                        and functions of each, and go out on patient visits.
                     
                     
                     Neighborhood Christian Center
                     
                     The mission of the Neighborhood Christian Centers, Inc. is to provide compassionate,
                        Christ-centered ministry to the practical and spiritual needs of the city's poor.
                     
                     
                     Page Robbins Adult Day Care
                     
                     This independent, non-profit agency began in 1995 to provide a safe environment for
                        individuals with Alzheimer's disease and related dementia with caring for their caregivers
                        and providing much need respite.
                     
                     
                     St. Luke's Church Health Fair
                     
                     Students were invited to participate in the St. Luke's Church Health Fair. Students
                        provided blood pressure and glucose screenings and education.
                     
                     
                     Other agencies and activities:
                     
                     
                        
                        Bartlett Recreation Center, Crosslink
                        
                        Catholic Church of the Holy Spirit Haiti Medical Missions
                        
                        Shelby County Health Department
                        
                        Shelby County School's Health Screenings
                        
                        Volunteer State Health Plan Health Fair
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply to Nursing
                              
                           
                           
                              RN-BSN Program
                              
                           
                           
                              Lambuth Nursing
                              
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 7/29/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/nursing/partnerships/
