http://www.memphis.edu/psychology/centers/psc.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Psychology
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Undergraduate
                        Graduate
                        People
                        Centers
                        Research
                        Resources
                     
                     
                        
                           Centers
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Centers
                                       
                                       Center for Applied Psychological Research
                                       
                                       Gambling Clinic
                                       
                                       Psychological Services Center
                                       
                                       Institute for Intelligence Systems
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Department of Psychology
                              	
                        
                              	Centers
                              	
                        PSC
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     The Psychological Services Center
                     
                     Services | Fees For Services | Location and Hours | RRB Information
                     
                     Department of Psychology The University of Memphis 400 Innovation Drive Memphis, TN 38152-6400 901.678.2147 Room 126, Psychology Building
                     
                     
                     At the Psychological Services Center, general outpatient psychotherapeutic and psychological
                        assessment services are provided to the individuals and families of the greater Memphis
                        metropolitan area. The Center’s mission is threefold:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        train future psychologists,
                        
                        provide affordable help to those in need of psychological service, and
                        
                        promote research to support the empirical bases of psychology practice.
                        
                     
                     
                     Students in the Clinical and School Psychology Doctoral programs, as well as those
                        in the specialist program in School Psychology, are the professional staff of the
                        Center. Our training faculty, which includes our Psychology faculty and adjunct faculty
                        chosen for their professional expertise, closely supervise the services provided by
                        these advanced graduate students.
                     
                     
                     The direct result of this training is affordable psychological services for the citizens
                        of Memphis and the surrounding communities. The Center is one of the only low-cost
                        psychology clinics in the city. Every year hundreds of individuals and families who
                        could not otherwise afford psychological assistance receive quality services at reduced
                        fee.
                     
                     
                     Finally, the Center is dedicated to applied research. All clinical grants and research
                        projects where clinical services are delivered use the Center as the service delivery
                        setting. Thus, the Center’s efforts are closely associated with the Psychology Department’s
                        focus on applied psychological research and the empirical-basis of psychology practice.
                     
                     
                     James P. Whelan, Ph.D.
                     
                     Counseling Services
                     
                     Adult Services
                     
                     Individual counseling is provided for clients who are experiencing interpersonal difficulties
                        at home or at work. Problems such as depression, anxiety, phobias, sleep disturbances,
                        adjustment problems, and stress-related difficulties are commonly treated. The center
                        also has a state-of-the-art program on the treatment of problem gambling. Additionally,
                        marital/couples' therapy is provided for couples who are experiencing difficulties
                        related to conflict resolution, spouse abuse, sexual dysfunctions, or other problems
                        requiring joint intervention.
                     
                     
                     Child Services
                     
                     Services are provided for children experiencing difficulties at school or at home.
                        Services include individual counseling, consultation, and other interventions for
                        use in the school and/or home. Center staff who specialize in dealing with childhood
                        problems work closely with children, their parents or guardians, and school personnel
                        in the management of the child's difficulties.
                     
                     
                     Family Services
                     
                     Counseling is provided for problems requiring family interventions. Therapists trained
                        in family therapy provide counseling for problems resulting from interpersonal conflicts,
                        blended families' issues, and adjustment to divorce.
                     
                     
                     Health Psychology
                     
                     Individual and group counseling is provided to aid clients in such activities as smoking
                        cessation, weight loss, pain and headache management, adjustment to chronic illness
                        and traumatic loss, and stress reduction. Therapists trained in medical psychology
                        and cognitive-behavioral interventions work with individuals experiencing problems
                        in such areas to promote a more healthy lifestyle.
                     
                     
                     Specialty Services
                     
                     Psychoeducational Evaluation
                     
                     Services include the evaluation of intelligence, achievement, personality, psychomotor,
                        and other skills and abilities in children, adolescents, and adults. The staff work
                        closely with school personnel in the evaluation of children suspected of being eligible
                        for special education (e.g. children with learning disabilities, mental retardation,
                        giftedness, attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder, behavioral disorders). In conjunction
                        with The University of Memphis Office for Students with Disabilities, the Center provides
                        evaluation and consultation for students experiencing academic problems in college.
                     
                     
                     Elimination Disorders
                     
                     Screening and treatment are provided for children with problems of enuresis or encopresis.
                        The emphasis of the program is on training parents to deal with the frustrations of
                        soiling or bedwetting, and to implement behavioral treatment procedures for the child
                        in the home.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     For further information or to schedule an appointment to talk with one of our therapists,
                        please call The Psychological Services Center at 901.678.2147.
                     
                     
                     Fees for Services
                     
                     Fees for services at The Psychological Services Center are based on the total family
                        income of the client. Students at University of Memphis who are enrolled at least
                        part time are eligible for a special low fee. Additionally, University of Memphis
                        faculty and staff receive a substantial discount for all services. Please contact
                        the clinic at 901.678.2147 for more specific information.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     For further information or to schedule an appointment to talk with one of our therapists,
                        please call The Psychological Services Center at 901.678.2147.
                     
                     
                     Location and Service Hours
                     
                     The Psychological Services Center is open from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. Monday through Thursday
                        and from 9 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. on Friday. The Clinic generally remains open even when
                        University classes are not in session. Therapists are on duty during operating hours
                        to handle emergency situations.
                     
                     
                     The Psychological Services Center is located on the first floor (Room 126) of the
                        Psychology Building on the University of Memphis campus. This building is located
                        at 400 Innovation Drive, one Block south of Central Avenue. Parking is available at
                        the parking garage on Innovation Drive, located directly next to the Psychology Building
                        or in the parking lot next to the Psychology Building off of Veterans Street.
                     
                     
                     RRB Information
                     
                     RRB Procedures (DOC)
                     
                     RRB Application (PDF)
                     
                     RRB Review Guidelines (PDF)
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Centers
                        
                           
                              
                              Centers
                                    
                                    Center for Applied Psychological Research
                                    
                                    Gambling Clinic
                                    
                                    Psychological Services Center
                                    
                                    Institute for Intelligence Systems
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Psychology Graduate Programs Application
                              Click on link to Apply to the Department of Psychology Graduate Program
                           
                           
                              The Psychological Services Center
                              PSC provides general outpatient psychotherapeutic and psychological assessment services
                                 to individuals and families
                              
                           
                           
                              Teaching Take-Out
                              This website is a resource for busy teachers who want to enrich their classes while
                                 preserving the time they need for research and other important professional activities.
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 8/31/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/psychology/centers/psc.php
