http://www.memphis.edu/act/about/index.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   		
   	
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Mid-South Access Center for Technology (ACT)
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About ACT
                        News
                        Resources
                        Services
                        VATR Lab
                        Giving
                     
                     
                        
                           About Mid-South ACT
                           
                              
                                 
                                 History
                                 Mission
                                 Clients
                                 Advisory Board
                                 Staff
                                 Funding
                                 A-Z
                                 Contact Us
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	ACT
                              	
                        
                           	About Mid-South ACT
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     About Mid-South ACT
                     
                     The growth of the Mid-South Access Center for Technology (ACT), a division of the
                        Center for Rehabilitation and Employment Research (CRER) has been phenomenal over
                        the last nine years. The staff of the Center continue to be resources for teachers,
                        clinicians, parents with children who have disabilities and individuals with disabilities.
                     
                     
                     In 1995, Dr.Tom Buggey established a small assistive technology center at the University
                        of Memphis. Assistive technology is defined as any piece of equipment that will allow
                        persons with disabilities to better access and participate in their environment. This
                        definition includes adaptive seating and positioning, alternative communication systems
                        (e.g. sign language, Braille, or computer generated speech), orientation and mobility
                        devices for persons with visual impairments, adapted manipulative for persons with
                        limited motor skills, etc. Dr. Buggey worked with The University of Memphis to purchase
                        a cart and some augmentative communication equipment that could be used to educate
                        pre-service teachers at the University.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Buggey began this effort to educate teachers in assistive technology following
                        a needs assessment of the region. He visited numerous schools and the Arlington Developmental
                        Center and was appalled at the lack of assistive technology applications. This was
                        especially true for alternative communication systems. Many persons with cerebral
                        palsy were placed in institutions or classes for students with severe cognitive disabilities
                        because they did not have the opportunity to express themselves. Most did not have
                        access to literacy because they lacked the motor skills necessary to open a book and
                        turn pages. Most lacked even basic self-help skills because people were administering
                        care rather than teaching empowerment through adaptive equipment. The reason why this
                        situation existed was, and is, quite obvious. Shelby County was the only area in the
                        state that is not served by an Assistive Technology Center. Assistive Technology Centers
                        provide assessments, training, and fitting of appropriate equipment. Without such
                        a center, Shelby County has fallen drastically behind the state and country and, has
                        thus under served its population of citizens with developmental disabilities.
                     
                     
                     Later, Dr. Janna Robertson was hired as a special education professor in the College
                        of Education, Health and Human Sciences. Dr. Robertson added to the Center's expertise
                        for the Assistive Technology Center to transcend merely being an aid to being a resource
                        for pre-service teachers. The next step was to establish a fully functional, fully
                        accredited, regional Assistive Technology Center to serve the needs of the Mid-South
                        Region.
                     
                     
                     The University granted space and assigned two graduate assistants to help manage the
                        center. The staff of the center and Dr. Janna Robertson developed a state-of-the-art
                        service delivery model (see Our Access Model) in the late 1990s. The center now has
                        a preview site for some of the top software and hardware producers in the country.
                        When new technology is developed, the Center will have access to it before it is released
                        to the public. The center collaborates with the ATTAIN center to provide assistive
                        technology resources for individuals and clinicians in the Loan Library. The value
                        of our hardware and software inventory has risen to over $125,000. Most of this inventory
                        was obtained through donations from the equipment vendors after being designated a
                        preview site. Additional funding to purchase assistive technology tools and devices
                        was received from a grant from the Inclusion in Higher Education Project at the University
                        of Tennessee Boling Center for $3000, funds from the College of Education, Health
                        and Human Sciences for $500, and a University of Memphis grant of $5000 and a $35,000
                        grant by the Tennessee Department of Education to assist in establishing a regional
                        assistive technology Center.
                     
                     
                     In December of 1998, The Center established ties with the University of Memphis Foundation
                        as a not-for-profit organization. At this time we changed the name of the center to
                        the Mid-South Access Center for Technology (ACT). The ACT has a board comprised of
                        members of various community organizations, parents, and persons with disabilities.
                        Many of the advisory board members have expertise in the areas of assistive technology
                        and services to individuals with disabilities. Most of the Advisory Board members
                        are involved with agencies with whom we have established collaborative agreements.
                        ACT became a member of the Alliance for Technology Access (ATA) on July 1, 1999. This
                        membership will allow ACT to receive and disseminate information to 48 other nationally
                        recognized sites and to over 70 vendors who collaborate with these sites. Mid-South
                        ACT is the first ATA site associated with a university; thus, we are in a unique situation
                        for research and development activities and dissemination. We were awarded year 3
                        of a $35,000 grant by the Tennessee Department of Education to assist in establishing
                        a regional Assistive Technology Center. We currently have contracts with the Tennessee's
                        Early Intervention System (T.E.I.S.), the State Department of Vocational Rehabilitation,
                        and are Waiver Provider for the Members of the Class-Action law suit.
                     
                     
                     Mid-South ACT is not only involved with teacher and service provider education, but
                        offers direct services to persons with disabilities. Professionals at the Mid-South
                        ACT conduct evaluations/assessments and facilitate training. Professionals have expertise
                        in areas such as: vision, assistive technology, literacy, early intervention, counseling,
                        and augmentative communication, seating and positioning.
                     
                     
                     Mid-South ACT has moved to a new location within the College of Education, Health
                        and Human Sciences. They are now a division of the Center for Rehabilitation and Employment
                        Research (CRER) and are housed in Patterson Hall on the campus of The University of
                        Memphis. The space is adequate and allows for an instructional lab, evaluation lab,
                        staff offices and observation rooms for one-on-one training and evaluations. The CRER
                        services includes vocational evaluations, psychological evaluations and assistive
                        technology evaluations.
                     
                     
                     ACT continues to seek funding necessary to stay on the cutting edge of technology
                        and maintain the staff necessary to meet the needs of our clients.
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        About Mid-South ACT
                        
                           
                              
                              History
                              Mission
                              Clients
                              Advisory Board
                              Staff
                              Funding
                              A-Z
                              Contact Us
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Profiles of Success
                              Visit our clients profiles and success stories.
                           
                           
                              Calendar of Events
                              Attend Support Group Meetings, AT Webinars, and  AT Mini-Demonstrations
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              We provide demonstrations, resources, and services for individuals who have disabilities
                                 in the Mid-South area.
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 11/27/15
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/act/about/index.php
