http://www.memphis.edu/crisis/protect.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Crisis Management
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Be TigerREADY
                        TigerText Sign-Up
                        Announcements
                        Info for Parents
                        BCP
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Crisis Management
                              	
                        Pandemic Influenza Information
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Protecting Faculty & Staff Checklist
                     
                     All organizations, whether government or private sector, large or small, are supported
                        by three primary assets: people, communications, and physical infrastructure. Unlike
                        other catastrophic events, an influenza pandemic will not directly affect the communications
                        or physical infrastructure, but an influenza pandemic will directly affect the University’s people. Therefore, it is critical that all units
                        anticipate the potential impact on faculty and staff, and consequently, the unit’s
                        ability to continue essential functions. As part of that planning, you will need to
                        ensure that reasonable measures are in place to protect the health of faculty and
                        staff during a pandemic.
                     
                     
                     Characteristics of Influenza Transmission  Understanding the characteristics of influenza transmission is important in order
                        to assess the threat pandemic influenza poses to your staff in the workplace, as well
                        as the efficacy and practicality of potential protective measures.   Human influenza virus is transmitted from person-to-person primarily via virus-laden
                        large droplets (particles >5 µm in diameter) that are generated when infected persons
                        cough, sneeze, or speak. These large droplets can then be directly deposited into
                        the upper respiratory tract of susceptible persons who are near (i.e., typically within
                        6 feet of) the droplet source. Transmission also may occur through direct and indirect
                        contact with infectious respiratory secretions. Patients with influenza typically
                        become infectious after a period of about 1 to 1.5 days and prior to showing symptoms
                        themselves. At about 2 days, most infected persons will develop symptoms of illness
                        although some remain asymptomatic throughout their infection. This is important because
                        even seemingly healthy individuals in early stages of influenza could be infectious
                        to others.   Vaccine and Antiviral Medications   The primary strategies for preventing pandemic influenza are the same as those for
                        seasonal influenza:  (1) vaccination; (2) early detection and treatment with antiviral
                        medications; and (3) the use of infection control measures to prevent transmission.
                        However, when a pandemic begins, only a limited stockpile of partially matched pandemic
                        vaccine may be available. A virus-specific vaccine to protect personnel will not be
                        available until 4 to 6 months after isolation of the pandemic virus. Finally, the
                        supply of antiviral drugs will be limited throughout a pandemic. Until sufficient
                        stockpiles of antiviral drugs have been established, these medications may be available
                        for treatment of only some symptomatic individuals. Therefore, the appropriate and
                        thorough application of non-pharmaceutical infection control measures remains the
                        key to limiting transmission, delaying the spread of a pandemic, and protecting personnel.
                     
                     
                     The following items should be considered during your planning for a pandemic contingency
                        within your workplace. Staff from Environmental Health & Safety and Student Health
                        Services are available to answer questions for you on this aspect of the planning.
                     
                     
                     Contact Information
                     
                     All Campus Emergencies ( Police Services ) (901) 678-HELP (4357)
                     
                     
                     Environmental Health & Safety Office hours: (901) 678-4672         For assistance after hours: (901) 678-HELP (4357)
                     
                     
                     Student Health Services Office hours: (901) 678-2287         For assistance after hours: (901) 678-HELP (4357)
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              Completed
                              Consideration
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Persons who are potentially infectious should: stay home if they are ill; cover their
                                    nose and mouth when coughing or sneezing, and use facial tissues to contain respiratory
                                    secretions and dispose of them in a waste container (respiratory hygiene/cough etiquette);
                                    and wash their hands (with soap and water, an alcohol-based hand rub, or antiseptic
                                    hand wash) after having contact with respiratory secretions and contaminated objects/materials
                                    (hand hygiene).
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Persons who are around individuals with influenza-like symptoms should: maintain spatial
                                    separation of at least 6 feet from that individual; turn their head away from direct
                                    coughs or sneezes; and wash their hands (with soap and water, alcohol-based hand rub,
                                    or antiseptic hand wash) after having contact with respiratory secretions and contaminated
                                    objects/materials.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Antibacterial hand washing products do not appear to offer an advantage over soap
                                    and water in most settings for removing influenza virus from hands.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Minimizing workplace exposure to pandemic influenza can be facilitated by developing
                                    policies and strategies for isolating and excusing employees who become ill at work;
                                    allowing unscheduled and non-punitive leave for employees with ill household contacts;
                                    restricting business-related travel to affected geographic areas; and establishing
                                    guidelines for when employees who have become ill can return to work.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Within the workplace, social distancing measures could take the form of: guidelines
                                    modifying the frequency and type of face-to-face encounters that occur between employees
                                    (e.g., moratoriums on hand-shaking, substitution of teleconferences for face-to-face
                                    meetings, staggered breaks, posting of infection control guidelines in prominent locations);
                                    policies establishing flexible work hours or worksite, including telecommuting; and
                                    promotion of social distancing between employees and customers.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Some social distancing measures, such as the recommendation to maintain 6 feet of
                                    spatial separation between individuals or to otherwise limit face-to-face contact,
                                    may be adaptable to certain work environments and in appropriate settings should be
                                    sustainable indefinitely at comparatively minimal cost. Low-cost or sustainable social
                                    distancing measures should be introduced within the workplace immediately after a
                                    community outbreak begins, and units should prepare for the possibility of measures
                                    that have the potential to disrupt their business continuity.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                              
                                 
                                 The on-line assessment tool should be utilized to classify employee exposure risk to pandemic influenza in the
                                    workplace. Where risks indicate the advisability to wear surgical masks or respirators,
                                    sufficient stock of such items should be maintained. Personnel required to wear respirators
                                    must have medical clearance, be fit tested, receive training, and be covered by a
                                    written respiratory protection program. It is essential that these preparations be
                                    made early; waiting until a pandemic occurs will significantly decrease the ability
                                    to implement a respiratory protection program and purchase appropriate supplies. Contact
                                    Environmental Health and Safety for further information on respiratory protection.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                              
                                 
                                 During a pandemic, persons who are diagnosed with influenza or who have a respiratory
                                    illness should remain at home until the fever and the cough are resolved to avoid
                                    exposing others. If symptomatic persons appear in the workplace, they must be required
                                    to wear a surgical or procedure mask. Any mask must be disposed of if it becomes moist.
                                    Individuals must wash or otherwise sanitize their hands after touching or discarding
                                    a used mask.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Given the concern regarding the spread of influenza through contaminated objects and
                                    surfaces, additional measures may be required to minimize the transmission of the
                                    virus through environmental surfaces such as sinks, handles, railings, and counters.
                                    Transmission from contaminated hard surfaces is unlikely, but influenza viruses may
                                    live up to 2 days on such surfaces. Surfaces that are frequently touched with hands
                                    should be cleaned at least daily during community outbreaks. At a minimum, units should
                                    develop procedures for cleaning facilities during an outbreak and develop procedures
                                    for employees to follow to keep work areas clean (e.g., disinfecting phones, keyboards,
                                    personal items). There is no evidence to support the efficacy of widespread disinfection
                                    of the environment or air.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                              
                                 
                                 If a unit’s employees or students travel outside the United States for business or
                                    educational reasons, plans should include consideration of the management of these
                                    personnel in the event of an influenza pandemic. Once a pandemic emerges, international
                                    travel may be disrupted. It is also possible that containment measures may be instituted
                                    affecting airline passenger movement. Organizations should anticipate that such measures
                                    might further aggravate staffing shortages.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              UofM Emergency Preparedness Workbook
                              Be aware. Be prepared. Have a plan.
                           
                           
                              Police Services
                              Police Services at the UofM
                           
                           
                              Forms
                              All of B&F's forms in one place
                           
                           
                              Business & Finance
                              The Division of Business & Finance at the UofM
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/13/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/crisis/protect.php
