http://www.memphis.edu/learningcommunities/facultystaff/index.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Tiger Learning Communities
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About TLCs
                        Why Join
                        How to Join
                        Current TLCs
                        Students
                        Faculty/Staff
                        FAQ
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Tiger Learning Communities
                              	
                        
                           	Faculty Staff
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Faculty and Staff Resources
                     
                     
                        
                        Expectations of Tiger Learning Communities Faculty Members
                        
                        Additional Expectations of Tiger Learning Communities Coordinators
                        
                        Calendars
                        
                        Finance and Personnel Issues
                        
                        Faculty Forms and Resources
                        
                        Resources for Students
                        
                     
                     
                     Expectations of Tiger Learning Communities Faculty Members
                     
                     
                        
                        Maintain open communications with the Tiger Learning Communities program. Please make sure to respond to all e-mails and telephone calls from the TLC team
                           in a timely manner and keep the TLC team informed of any changes or adjustments to
                           your learning community.
                        
                        
                        Maintain continuous communication with the other faculty members teaching the associated
                              Tiger Learning Community courses. By communicating with the other faculty members within your learning community, the
                           coordinator can help facilitate academic success and integration of coursework within
                           the community.
                        
                        
                        Attend meet and greet with the Tiger Learning Communities team. Prior to the beginning of the semester, all Tiger Learning Communities faculty will
                           be asked attend a meet and greet with the TLC team and one another. This allows the
                           opportunity for FAQs among the group and the opportunity to resolve any faculty issues
                           before classes start.
                        
                        
                        Assist the Tiger Learning Communities students outside of the classroom as needed. Students may present themselves to you for help with academic, social, or personal
                           issues. Please do what you can to connect these students with the appropriate resources
                           on campus or in the community.
                        
                        
                        Attend meet and greet with the Tiger Learning Communities students. During the first week of the semester, all Tiger Learning Communities faculty will
                           be asked attend a meet and greet with their learning community students. This allows
                           the opportunity for a sense of community to begin to grow.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                       
                     
                     Additional Expectations of Tiger Learning Communities Coordinators 
                     
                     (Learning community coordinators are those teaching ACAD 1100 or INDP 1000 or UNHP
                        1100.)
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Send "welcome" e-mail to your learning community students prior to the start of the
                              semester. As a way to inform students of what they will experience within the specific learning
                           community, each coordinator must send an e-mail to the participants. This can also
                           give students an opportunity to make adjustments to their personal schedule to accommodate
                           learning community activities as they need to. Please copy Vanessa Brocks on this
                           email at vbrocks@memphis.edu .
                        
                        
                        Set the tone of your Tiger Learning Community. By setting a caring tone, coordinators are showing that they are invested in the
                           success of the learning community. It includes, but is not limited, to intervening
                           if class attendance starts to drop, establishing communication with other TLC faculty
                           so you are aware of what and how well students are doing in their classes, and being
                           aware of any Early Interventions submitted.
                        
                        
                        Be responsible for the success of your Tiger Learning Community , as measured by the five community success outcomes.
                        
                        
                        Have realistic expectations of students. You must meet students were they are. Yet, you should set high expectations with
                           a support system. Over the course of the semester, be prepared for students to change
                           their interests. However, you must still engage them within the community.
                        
                        
                        Act as a student advocate. Be prepared to intervene on a student's behalf if the need arises. However, use the
                           opportunity as a teaching moment for the student.
                        
                        
                        Complete your forms for the Tiger Learning Communities program on time. Please complete the Activity Planning form , the Midterm Report , and the Extra Compensation form (if applicable, contact Lorie Hutson ) in a timely manner to ensure the any and all appropriations are disbursed on time.
                        
                        
                        Schedule at least one structured out-of-class enrichment activity. Consistent with the guiding principles of learning communities, coordinators are
                           expected to plan, initiate, and attend a co-curricular/social activity with their
                           students that relate to the content of the courses that comprise the learning community.
                        
                        
                        Schedule time for an in-class assessment of your Tiger Learning Community. To ensure the continuous success of the Tiger Learning Communities program, a yearly
                           assessment is needed. Please allot for approximately a 30-minute period during your
                           class session for the TLC team to conduct an assessment. You will not be allowed in
                           the classroom during the time of the assessment as we want the students to speak candidly
                           about their experience. The scheduled time for this assessment is the week before the Thanksgiving Break.
                        
                        Ensure timely grade feedback in all of your Tiger Learning Community courses via eCourseware. In order for students to be aware of their academic standing in courses at any given
                           time, the University of Memphis is strongly encouraging the use of eCourseware to
                           report student grades. Therefore, we are asking you adopt this measure and to strongly
                           encourage your other TLC faculty to do the same.
                        
                        
                        Plan a midterm meeting with the other faculty in your Tiger Learning Community. During this meeting, you and the other TLC faculty will discuss the progress of the
                           community and the students. This information will be needed to complete the Midterm Report which will be due the Friday before Fall Break.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Calendars
                     
                     Academic Calendar
                     
                     University Events Calendar
                     
                     Finance and Personnel Issues
                     
                     Contact Lorie Hutson
                     
                     lhutson@memphis.edu
                     
                     212 Wilder Tower
                     
                     Faculty Forms and Resources
                     
                     
                        
                        Academic Mindset Handout
                        
                        Activity Planning Form
                        
                        Complete to Compete
                        
                        Community Success Outcomes
                        
                        eCourseware Training Directions
                        
                        Midterm Report
                        
                     
                     
                     Resources for Students
                     
                     
                        
                        Adult and Commuter Students
                        
                        Academic Advising
                        
                        Bookstore
                        
                        Bursar
                        
                        Campus Map
                        
                        Campus Safety
                        
                        Career Counseling : Career exploration, planning, testing, assessment
                        
                        
                        Career Services : Resume writing, interview skills, job listings and internships
                        
                        
                        Daily Helmsman : Campus newspaper
                        
                        
                        Daycare
                        
                        Disability Resources for Students
                        
                        Financial Aid
                        
                        Health Center : Medical staff, vaccinations, health and wellness info
                        
                        
                        International Programs : Study abroad, International Students Office
                        
                        
                        Multicultural Affairs
                        
                        Parking
                        
                        Psychological Counseling
                        
                        Recreation, Fitness, and Intramural Sports
                        
                        Registrar
                        
                        Residence Halls : Dorms
                        
                        
                        Testing Center : Student testing, assessment, placement; credit by exam
                        
                        
                        Tutoring
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Academic Counseling Center
                              The ACC houses Tiger Learning Communities
                           
                           
                              Living Learning Communities
                              The residential version of TLC's
                           
                           
                              ACAD 1100
                              An Academic Strategies course in many of our TLC's
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/13/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/learningcommunities/facultystaff/index.php
