http://www.memphis.edu/nso/information/nso_explore.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			New Student Orientation
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Orientation Information
                        Meet Your Guides
                        Contact Us
                        FAQ
                        International Students
                     
                     
                        
                           NSO Information
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Register for Orientation
                                 Explore Your Options
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	New Student Orientation
                              	
                        
                              	NSO Information
                              	
                         Explore Your Options
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Explore Your Options
                     
                     We’re so glad that you have chosen the University of Memphis, and we would like to
                        get you started on how to best maximize your experience at our institution. Below
                        are a few tips and tricks on how to become a true blue tiger.
                     
                     
                     Choosing a Major  Taking General Education  Participating in Special Opportunities  University of Memphis Traditions & Fight Song 
                     
                     Choosing a Major: 
                     
                     
                        
                        The Undergraduate Catalog gives details about each major available.
                        
                        In the section of the Catalog titled “ Colleges and Degree Programs ,” look for majors that interest you.
                        
                        
                        Choose the one or two majors to read more carefully. 
                        
                        Check the 4 year plan for each major to see what courses are suggested for the first
                           semester. Each course in the 4 year plan has a certain number of hours listed beside it.  Twelve
                           hours is considered full time; however, many first year students take 15-18 hours
                           of coursework.  Taking 15 hours per semester for 8 semesters allows a student to graduate
                           in 4 years.
                        
                        
                        If you are not sure what major you want to pursue, you have the option of beginning
                           your college career as “undecided,” which gives you time to explore the majors of
                           greatest interest to you.  “Undecided” students are advised in the Academic Counseling
                           Center by professional advisors who will assist you with seeking a major and a career.
                        
                        
                        The Occupational Outlook Handbook offers valuable information: bls.gov/oco/
                        
                        Focus 2 is a program designed to help students learn about careers and majors that fit their
                           interests and strengths. You will need to create your account according to the instructions.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Taking General Education
                     
                      Many of the courses in the first semester are General Education courses, often referred
                        to as “Gen Ed” courses.  Look over the Catalog information regarding “ University General Education Program .” 
                     
                     
                        
                        Be prepared to tell your advisor which courses in these categories sound interesting
                           to you.
                        
                        
                        Social/Behavioral Science (6 hours required)
                        
                        Humanities and Fine Arts (one literature course plus 6 hours required)
                        
                        Natural Science (8 hours required)
                        
                     
                     
                     When you meet with your advisor, you should tell him or her about any of the following
                        items that pertain to you.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Dual Enrollment :  Any college level courses during high school . You will need to ask the COLLEGE or UNIVERSITY through which you took these courses to have a transcript sent to The University
                           of Memphis.  (If you took them through The University of Memphis, your transcript
                           is here already.)
                        
                        
                        AP Credit :  Any AP courses for which you took or will take the AP Test. Check the AP table to see what score you need to place out of courses at The University of Memphis.
                           If you place out of a course by earning AP credit, you receive an S for the course, and you are allowed to take any subsequent courses in that area. 
                        
                        
                        ACT Proficiency Exam Program: Students scoring 29 or higher on the ACT English Sub Score or 650 or higher on the
                           SAT Verbal Score will be awarded 3 hours credit for ENGL 1010.
                        
                        
                        CLEP Tests :  Students have the option of taking a test to determine if they have the knowledge
                           required in some college courses through a nationally recognized battery of tests
                           referred to as CLEP Tests.  If a test is successfully completed, the student will
                           receive course credit for the appropriate class. 
                        
                        
                        Foreign Language : Some majors/degrees require students to complete courses in a foreign language. 
                           For a new language, or if you know your skills are weak, you will begin with the 1010
                           level of the foreign language.  If you want to continue with the same foreign language
                           from high school and feel you have a solid background, you should take a placement
                           test in the Language Media Center in Jones 220 to determine which course you are ready
                           to take.  Beginning May 21, you may take a placement test in French, German, Japanese
                           and Spanish from 9:00-11:30 a.m. or 1:30-2:00 p.m. If you need to make an appointment
                           for testing in Italian or in Latin, or if you have any questions about anything else, call
                           the Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures at 901-678-2507.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Participation in Special Opportunities 
                     
                     Several programs have been designed to support students as they make their adjustment
                        to college studies and campus life. 
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        ACAD 1100- Academic Strategies :  This program is designed to teach the academic strategies and self-management skills
                           necessary to be a successful college student.
                        
                        
                        T iger Learning Communities :  Learning Communities consist of courses tied together with a specific theme or
                           academic major.  Students in a Tiger Learning Community make connections on many levels
                           - with other students in the community, with the specially-chosen faculty who teach
                           and serve as mentors, and with the courses that revolve around the theme/major. 
                        
                        
                        Frosh Camp : Frosh Camp is a four day camp at NaCoMe Conference Center located between Pleasantville
                           and Centerville, TN, exclusively for incoming freshmen. Frosh Camp gives new students
                           an upper hand on their first year by teaching what to expect inside and outside of
                           class, introducing them to all that the University of Memphis has to offer, tons of
                           Tiger spirit, connections with upperclassman and 250 fellow freshmen, fun, memories,
                           and lots of new friends!
                        
                        
                        Honors Program : High ability students are eligible to enroll in the Honors Program at The University
                           of Memphis.
                        
                        
                        Nursing :   All students interested in an undergraduate major in nursing are advised in the
                           Academic Counseling Center. 
                        
                        
                        Pre-Health :  Students interested in pursuing a career in medicine, dentistry, pharmacy, optometry,
                           physician assistant studies or in one of the allied health professions (including
                           cytotechnology, dental hygiene, health informatics and information management, medical
                           technology, occupational therapy, physical therapy) should take advantage of the information
                           found on the Pre-Health website. 
                        
                        
                        Pre-Law : Students interested in going to law school after completing their four-year degree
                           should explore the Pre-Law website.
                        
                        
                        Trio Classic Program :  This program provides support services to first-generation, low-income students
                           and/or students with disabilities needing support services during their university
                           years.
                        
                        
                        Trio STEM Program :  This program is designed specifically for 120 eligible students who are enrolled
                           in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) majors at the UofM.  Students
                           must meet the eligibility requirements to become TRIO STEM Participants. 
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     University of Memphis Traditions & Fight Song 
                     
                     To prepare for the next Tiger Athletics game or celebrate a victory, you can download
                        the UofM Fight Song here
                     Learn more about the University of Memphis History & Traditions through our Alumni
                     Association’s website !
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        NSO Information
                        
                           
                              
                              Register for Orientation
                              Explore Your Options
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Register for Orientation
                              Register to attend one of the orientation sessions.
                           
                           
                              Be Prepared
                              Things you need to know before your orientation.
                           
                           
                              Explore Your Options
                              Important information to help you during orientation.
                           
                           
                              Meet Your Guides
                              See the guides who will be available to assist you.
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/12/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/nso/information/nso_explore.php
