http://www.memphis.edu/chucalissa/about/
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			C.H. Nash Museum Chucalissa
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Schedule & Fees
                        Events
                        Directions
                        Museum Store
                        Sites to See
                     
                     
                        
                           About 
                           
                              
                                 Early Chucalissa
                                 Chucalissa Today
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Chucalissa
                              	
                        
                           	About
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Mission Statement
                     
                     The mission of the C.H. Nash Museum at Chucalissa, a division of the University of
                        Memphis, is to protect and interpret the Chucalissa archaeological site's cultural
                        and natural environments, and to provide the University Community and the public with
                        exceptional educational, participatory and research opportunities on the landscape's
                        past and present Native American and traditional cultures.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Chucalissa Then & Now
                     
                     Early Chucalissa
                     
                     Although projectile points dating back some 3000 years have been found at the site,
                        most evidence indicates that the first town was founded around 1000 C.E. Although
                        brief, this occupation, known as the Ensley Phase, paved the way for more stable communities
                        in the following centuries. Little has survived of this first occupation, the site
                        appears to have been a satellite of a larger community located near Downtown Memphis.
                     
                     
                     Around 1200 C.E. the village was again brought to life during what is referred to
                        as the Mitchell Phase. Daily life and customs appear to have changed little, but this
                        phase marked the initiation of the mound building phase with the construction of the
                        first small mound. There is also evidence of contact with people to the south; yet
                        again the village was short lived.
                     
                     
                     After being abandoned for some two hundred years, the site was again settled around
                        1400 C.E. During the Boxtown Phase of occupation, perhaps the most important evidence
                        suggests a broad trading network extending from the Natchez area of Mississippi to
                        Western Kentucky and Illinois. The most impressive evidence for these contacts is
                        seen by the presence of potsherds.
                     
                     
                     Around 1500 C.E. the last, and most powerful settlement of the area occurred. The
                        village constructed during this, the Walls Phase, is the one represented at the site
                        today. During this phase, large mounds were constructed around the central plaza.
                        Society and technology evolved and produced a rather advanced socially stratified
                        chiefdom.
                     
                     
                     During this occupation farming, supplemented by hunting and fishing were the mainstays
                        of daily life. Meanwhile a substantial artisan class practiced their trades, and extended
                        the economic network of the village. Additionally the residents enjoyed sufficient
                        free time to warrant the construction of a ball field/ceremonial ground. Although
                        it is unclear exactly why, these inhabitants too abandoned the site before the arrival
                        of DeSoto in the Mid-south.
                     
                     
                     In 1541 Spanish colonial explorer Hernando DeSoto "discovered" the Mississippi River
                        somewhere south of Memphis. Over the course of the next 500 years, many nations would
                        lay claim to the land that Chucalissa is on and by 1800 it was considered the property
                        of the expanding United States.
                     
                     
                     The bottom-lands between the bluff and the river were turned to farming early in the
                        19th century. This improved land was bought in 1854 and run as a cotton plantation.
                        Nineteen enslaved African Americans were purchased as laborers along with the land,
                        its buildings and some animals. These and other slaves were freed during the course
                        of the Civil War. Though we do not know what became of these individuals, many local
                        African Americans remained in this area and farmed under the sharecropping and tenant
                        farming systems.
                     
                     
                     Following the Civil War, this land traded hands a number of times until 1936, when
                        it was purchased by the state to create the Shelby County Negro Park. This park was
                        to be the Jim Crow-era analogy to the whites-only Shelby Forest north of Memphis.
                        The archaeological site was discovered in 1938 by Civilian Conservation Corps workers
                        preparing the new park. The University of Tennessee began archaeological excavations
                        at the site in 1940, but soon halted them in response to World War II. In 1955 work
                        resumed at Chucalissa and the first public museum at the site was opened in 1956.
                     
                     
                     Chucalissa Today
                     
                     In January 1962, Memphis State University assumed administrative responsibility for
                        Chucalissa and the site quickly became a central focus of the Archaeology program
                        in the Department of Anthropology. Chucalissa supported a continuous series of field
                        schools and was the subject of numerous MA theses and practicums. In 1974, Chucalissa
                        was listed on the National Register of Historic Place and in 1994 was declared a National
                        Historic Landmark.
                     
                     
                     Today, Chucalissa continues to provide educational experiences for the general public
                        and elementary and secondary students, and visitors to the Memphis through its exhibitions,
                        tour programs and special events. Our goal is to provide a range of educational programs
                        to promote greater awareness and appreciation of the accomplishments of the Native
                        American people of the Mid-South, both past and present.
                     
                     
                     The C.H. Nash Museum and Chucalissa support diverse undergraduate and graduate programs
                        at the University of Memphis. The museum and its associated educational programs provide
                        training opportunities for students in the Museum Studies Graduate Certificate Program. 
                     
                     
                     We continue to work toward an expanded and enhanced visitor experience at Chucalissa
                        and continued service to the educational mission of the University of Memphis.
                     
                     
                     Chucalissa offers guided tours, traveling exhibits, and a variety of special events
                        for students and the general public.  Events include our International Archaeology
                        Day, family days, and various demonstrations of crafts and early technologies. For
                        more information consult the event calendar page or contact the museum at 901.785.3160
                        or write chucalissa@memphis.edu .
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        About 
                        
                           
                              Early Chucalissa
                              Chucalissa Today
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Educational Resources
                              Program offerings, Teacher and Group Leader packets, Activities, and more...
                           
                           
                              Anoachi Newsletter
                              An inside glimpse at Museum Operations
                           
                           
                              Support the Museum
                              Your gifts support educational programs and exhibits
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Want to volunteer or schedule a tour at Chucalissa? Have a question about our collections?
                                 Contact our main office...
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/22/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/chucalissa/about/
