http://www.memphis.edu/fedex/index.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			FedEx Institute of Technology
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                        
                           			
                           
                           
                           
                           	
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Research Clusters
                        Events
                        Our Team
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                           	FedEx Institute
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           Beyond the Edge  
                           
                           
                           Innovation in Action
                           
                        
                        
                        
                           
                           Research Clusters
                           
                           Fueling Discovery
                           
                        
                        
                        
                        
                         
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           Going Beyond the Edge
                           
                        
                        
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Cities want to be on the leading edge. Companies want to stay on the cutting edge.
                        And everyone, it seems, is looking for the competitive edge. But to achieve these
                        goals, somebody has to go beyond the edge, into unknown territory to explore new possibilities,
                        make new discoveries, and develop the next generation of emerging technologies. This
                        is the work of the FedEx Institute of Technology at the University of Memphis: ADVANCING
                        THE SCIENCE OF WHAT'S NEXT.
                        
                        We coordinate and secure funding for world-class research. We offer a dynamic community
                           for collaboration and the exchange of new ideas. And we foster strong relationships
                           with businesses and community partners throughout the region who know the value of
                           innovation and understand the advantages of being first. So come and join us beyond
                           the edge, and see just how exciting the future can be.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                        
                          
                        
                        Big Data is a concept that impacts every industry. The FedEx Institute is pleased
                                 to offer an intensive 5-day workshop on Big Data and Analytics designed to provide
                                 attendees with a broad knowledge of techniques for utilizing big data professionally. 
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        There is nothing more important than creating a sound Cyber Security Infrastructure.
                                 We are pleased to offer two upcoming "State-of-the-art In Cyber Security Workshops"
                                 in two locations: Memphis and Nashville
                        
                        
                        
                        The Institute is making Memphis a technology destination. Read up on the latest news
                                 at the Institute in our Press Room
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                         
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              Research Clusters
                              
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        Innovative technology research is at the heart of everything the FedEx Institute of
                        Technology does. Utilizing our research cluster model, the Institute brings together
                        interdisciplinary researchers from across campus to create a community focused on
                        addressing opportunities in key emerging technologies. By providing a research context
                        and a community to support this research, we are able to make rapid innovation a possibility
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Institute for Intelligent Systems Cluster
                        
                        
                        Our most established cluster brings together a team from across the University to
                        address the challenges of artificial intelligence and machine learning in developing
                        instruction and tutoring modules.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Mobile Sensor Data 2 Knowledge
                        
                        
                        The MD2K cluster is an NIH funded collaboration between 11 Universities across the
                        country. Working in collaboration, the MD2K team is making realtime healthcare data
                        accessible across numerous metrics
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        DRONES Cluster
                        
                        
                        Unmanned and autonomous systems are emerging into commercial sectors and changing
                        how we see the world. DRONES is the future.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           Biologistics Cluster
                           
                             
                           Memphis is an international logistics center. Our Biologistics cluster is leading
                           the field in this emerging field in a partnership with the Intermodal Freight Transport
                           Institute at U of M.
                        
                        
                        
                           
                           Cybersecurity and Testing Cluster
                           
                            
                           Cybersecurity and Testing is a concern in every industry. The Institute's long standing
                           expertise in cybersecurity and testing is leveraged through our CAST cluster.
                        
                        
                        
                           
                           Big Data and Analytics     Cluster
                           
                           
                           As the tools to collect data become increasingly more sophisticated, it is essential
                           that we create the solutions to rapidly process this data and prevent a data backlog.
                           The Big Data cluster is pioneering this research.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                         
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              Innovation in Action
                              
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Upcoming Events Calendar: September | October | November | December |
                     
                     
                     The FedEx Institute of Technology is the leader in Emerging Technologies Innovation
                        in the Mid-South. Through our partnerships and skills development programs we are
                        making Memphis the first place for technology innovation in the South. Bringing together
                        institutions, organizations, researchers, and companies from across Memphis, the Institute
                        is creating a truly innovative and collaborative environment.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Community Partners Program
                        
                        
                        The Institute is bringing the Mid-South community together to advance technology with
                           the community partners program.
                     
                     
                        
                        World-Class Technology Training
                        
                        
                        Instruction in emerging technologies by internationally renowned researchers is critical
                           to attracting companies to Memphis and developing our technology workforce.
                     
                     
                        
                        Technology Transfer
                        
                        
                        A great University is home to great inventors. The University of Memphis Office of
                           Technology Transfer is housed in the Institute to capitalize on innovations at the
                           University. 
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Fueling Discovery
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              Innovation requires a strong base of corporations, organizations, and individual who
                                 recognize that investment in advancing the science what's next will lead to a brighter
                                 future for everyone. Memphis the national leader in giving, and our corporate citizens
                                 and community know that the FedEx Institute of Technology is the place to invest in
                                 the future of our city. By collaborating with the Institute on targeted research,
                                 our partners are able to leverage a comprehensive world-class research institution
                                 - gaining a unique advantage over competitors. Funding research and skills development
                                 programs at the Institute has a direct, tangible benefit to your workforce and the
                                 position of your company in your industry.
                                 
                                 Some of our current corporate partners:
                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                            
                           
                            The FedEx Connection:
                           
                           The FedEx Corporation sponsors the FedEx Institute of Technology for advanced research
                              in emerging technologies (view FedEx innovation strategy ). FedEx understands that investing in emerging technologies research and critical
                              technology skills development makes Memphis a stronger, vibrant, and more attractive
                              market for technology companies from around the world. The Institute, as the center
                              for technology innovation in Memphis, plays an instrumental role in making Memphis
                              the first word in innovation nation-wide. 
                           
                           
                           Going Beyond the Edge:
                           
                           Everyone it seems is on the cutting edge. The FedEx Institute of Technology can help
                              you go beyond the edge of technology innovation with leading research, world-class
                              technology skills development, and a collaborative interdisciplinary approach to meeting
                              the challenges you face. The Institute is a center for technology innovation and research
                              and collaboration are at the core of everything we do. Contact us at fedex@memphis.edu to learn how we can collaborate to meet your technology innovation needs. 
                           
                           
                            
                           
                            
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Research
                              World-class researchers addressing critical emerging technology challenges
                           
                           
                              Technology Transfer
                              The home of University of Memphis intellectual property
                           
                           
                              Corporate Engagement
                              Collaboration leads to innovation
                           
                           
                              Newsroom
                              Catch up on what the Institute has been doing. 
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        Follow Us Online
                        
                           Twitter
                           Facebook
                        
                     

   
      Cutting Edge Research
      
         
             The FedEx Institute provides the opportunity to advance my research in additive manufacturing
               in a collaborative and interdisciplinary environment
            
         
         Dr. Ebrahim Asadi
      
   
                     
                        Calendar
                        Research Clusters
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 11/7/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/fedex/index.php
