http://www.memphis.edu/law/current-students/graduation-requirements.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Programs
                        Current Students
                        Faculty
                        Careers
                        Library
                     
                     
                        
                           Current Students
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Registrar
                                       
                                       Course & Class Information
                                       
                                       Course Catalog
                                       
                                       Curriculum
                                       
                                       Registration
                                       
                                       Calendars
                                       
                                       Degree Programs
                                       
                                       Part-Time Program
                                       
                                       Certificate Programs
                                       
                                       Records Request
                                       
                                       Graduation Requirements
                                       
                                       Academic Regulations
                                       
                                       Student Advising
                                       
                                       Bar Exam Information
                                    
                                 
                                 Academic Regulations
                                 Student Organizations
                                 Student Affairs
                                       Student Affairs Overview
                                       Academic Success Program
                                       Appointment Information
                                       Bar Exam Information
                                       Bookstore
                                       Commencement
                                       Counseling Services
                                       Information Technology
                                       Law School ID Cards
                                       Locker Rentals
                                       Orientation
                                       Parking
                                       TN Lawyers Assistance Prog.
                                       Student Advising
                                       Study Abroad
                                    
                                 
                                 Financial Information
                                 Pro Bono
                                 Honor Council
                                 GA Timesheet
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	School of Law 
                              	
                        
                              	Current Students
                              	
                        Graduation Requirements 
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS
                     
                     This section will describe what requirements for graduation are required of students
                        seeking to receive their Juris Doctor Degre from The University of Memphis Cecil C.
                        Humphreys School of Law. Please refer to the Academic Regulations for additional and more thorough information pertaining to other academically-related
                        matters.
                     
                     
                     Course Requirements
                     
                     A student is required to complete course work for a total of at least 90 credit hours
                        for all courses.
                     
                     
                     Required Courses and Course Sequencing for Full-Time Students
                     
                     A student enrolled in the full-time program is required to complete the following
                        courses in the sequence indicated, unless an exception is granted by the Dean or the
                        Dean's designee.
                     
                     
                           
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Required Courses and Course Sequencing for Part-Time Students
                     
                     A student enrolled in the part-time program is required to complete the following
                        courses in the indicated sequence unless an exception is granted by the Dean of the Dean's designee.
                     
                     
                        
                     
                      
                     
                     Other Required Courses for Full-Time and Part-Time Students
                     
                     In addition to the above listed courses, a student is required to satisfy both the
                        advanced writing and the skills requirements.
                     
                     
                     1. Advanced Writing A student is required to enroll in a two (2) or three (3) hour advanced writing course.
                        The advanced writing requirement is be met by earning a C or better in an advanced
                        writing course. (See Section 12.5.) See the Course Catalog for a list of courses that satisfy the advanced writing requirement. (See Section 12.5.) A student is required to complete
                        the first-year full-time curriculum prior to enrollment in an advanced writing course,
                        unless a waiver is granted by the Academic Affairs Committee.
                     
                     
                     2. Skills A student is required to have at least two credit-hours of skills courses to satisfy
                        the skills requirement. (See Section 12.2.) See the Course Catalog for a list of courses that satisfy the skills requirement.
                     
                     
                     Limitations on Courses for Credit toward Graduation
                     
                     1. Not more than a total of twelve (12) credit hours may be utilized toward satisfying graduation
                        requirements by satisfactorily completing the following courses:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        (a) Any externship,
                        
                        (b) Law Review and Law Review Board,
                        
                        (c) Moot Court (including Moot Court Board, Moot Court Executive Board, and inter-school
                           or intra-school competition credit),
                        
                        
                        (d) Independent Research, and
                        
                        (e) Advanced Clinic.
                        
                     
                     
                     2. To satisfy graduation requirements, a student is permitted a total of three (3) externships,
                        two (2) clinic courses, or a combination of (1) clinic and (2) two externship courses.
                        Absent permission from the Associate Dean of Academic Affairs, a student may not repeat
                        a clinic or externship, may not enroll in both a clinic and externship in the same
                        semester or summer session, and may not enroll in more than one clinic or more than
                        one externship in any semester or summer session. For enrollment purposes in these
                        limited enrollment courses, a student who has taken one clinic will not receive priority
                        for a second clinic, and a student who has taken one externship will not receive priority for a second externship.
                     
                     
                     Waiver of Course Requirement
                     
                     For good cause shown and to avoid hardship, waiver of completion of any required course
                        may be permitted only with the approval of the Academic Affairs Committee and on conditions
                        set by the Committee.
                     
                     
                     Twenty-four Month Requirement
                     
                     A student may complete the law school's degree requirements no earlier than 24 months
                        after a student has commenced law study at the law school or a law school from which
                        the school has accepted transfer credit.
                     
                     
                     Six-Year Requirement
                     
                     A student must complete all of such student's graduation requirements within six (6) calendar
                        years from the date of the student's initial enrollment in law school or forfeit all hours
                        earned during this period. The student will, however, be allowed to reapply for admission as an entering student and compete with other applicants for a position
                        in the entering class, with no credit allowed for prior work. The Academic Affairs
                        Committee may make an exception to the foregoing rule if the student submits a proposed
                        course of study for approval, but in no event may a student extend study so that the J.D.
                        degree is not completed within 84 months of the time the student commenced law study.
                     
                     
                     Work at Other Schools
                     
                     Any work to be taken at another law school on a transient basis must be approved by the
                        Dean prior to the student's attendance at such other law school. Once approved, a student
                        may not utilize more than 30 semester hours toward the student's degree at this law school, unless an exception is granted by the Academic Affairs Committee.
                     
                     
                     Grade Requirement
                     
                     A student must have a grade point average of 2.00 or better in all work undertaken
                        at the University of Memphis to graduate.
                     
                     
                     Completion of Work
                     
                     All required courses must be completed. Completion of a course consists of sufficient attendance
                        in class, performance of all required work, the taking of all examinations, making
                        a passing grade (D or above or, in the case of non-graded course, a grade of E or S),
                        with the exception of the research requirement which requires a grade of C or above. (See
                        Section 12.5.) Failure to complete work in any course as it is required, or to take
                        an examination when required, will result in a grade of F in the course. Delay in
                        completing the work in a course may be permitted, as outlined under Delay in Completing
                        Required Work. (See Section 10.)
                     
                     
                     Pro Bono Requirement
                     
                     A student must complete forty hours of pro bono service to graduate. Please see the
                        Pro Bono Program Handbook for more information.
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Current Students
                        
                           
                              
                              Registrar
                                    
                                    Course & Class Information
                                    
                                    Course Catalog
                                    
                                    Curriculum
                                    
                                    Registration
                                    
                                    Calendars
                                    
                                    Degree Programs
                                    
                                    Part-Time Program
                                    
                                    Certificate Programs
                                    
                                    Records Request
                                    
                                    Graduation Requirements
                                    
                                    Academic Regulations
                                    
                                    Student Advising
                                    
                                    Bar Exam Information
                                 
                              
                              Academic Regulations
                              Student Organizations
                              Student Affairs
                                    Student Affairs Overview
                                    Academic Success Program
                                    Appointment Information
                                    Bar Exam Information
                                    Bookstore
                                    Commencement
                                    Counseling Services
                                    Information Technology
                                    Law School ID Cards
                                    Locker Rentals
                                    Orientation
                                    Parking
                                    TN Lawyers Assistance Prog.
                                    Student Advising
                                    Study Abroad
                                 
                              
                              Financial Information
                              Pro Bono
                              Honor Council
                              GA Timesheet
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply to Memphis Law
                              
                           
                           
                              News & Events
                              
                           
                           
                              Alumni & Support
                              
                           
                           
                              ABA Required Disclosures
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/26/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/law/current-students/graduation-requirements.php
