http://www.memphis.edu/law/current-students/student-organizations.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Programs
                        Current Students
                        Faculty
                        Careers
                        Library
                     
                     
                        
                           Current Students
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Registrar
                                       Course & Class Information
                                       Course Catalog
                                       Curriculum
                                       Registration
                                       Calendars
                                       Degree Programs
                                       Part-Time Program
                                       Certificate Programs
                                       Records Request
                                       Graduation Requirements
                                       Academic Regulations
                                       Student Advising
                                       Bar Exam Information
                                    
                                 
                                 Academic Regulations
                                 Student Organizations
                                 Student Affairs
                                       Student Affairs Overview
                                       Academic Success Program
                                       Appointment Information
                                       Bar Exam Information
                                       Bookstore
                                       Commencement
                                       Counseling Services
                                       Information Technology
                                       Law School ID Cards
                                       Locker Rentals
                                       Orientation
                                       Parking
                                       TN Lawyers Assistance Prog.
                                       Student Advising
                                       Study Abroad
                                    
                                 
                                 Financial Information
                                 Pro Bono
                                 Honor Council
                                 GA Timesheet
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	School of Law 
                              	
                        
                              	Current Students
                              	
                        Student Organizations 
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS
                     
                     Memphis Law has a number of active student organizations. Each organization is listed
                        below with contact information. Throughout a student's law school career many find
                        it extremely beneficial to be a part of one or a few student organizations.
                     
                     
                     Association for Women Attorneys
                     
                     President: Ashley Finch
                     
                     The Association for Women Attorneys student chapter is an organization dedicated to
                        promoting the interests, education, and advancements of women attorneys. Along with
                        the AWA professional chapter, the AWA student chapter regularly coordinates scholarship
                        opportunities, speaking engagements, and meetings for members. Please contact the
                        Memphis Chapter of the AWA or memphisawa@yahoo.com for further information. 
                     
                     
                     Black Law Students Association President: Dawn Campbell
                     
                     Founded in 1966, the Black Law Students Association seeks to promote the professional
                        needs of African-American law students through promoting professional competence and
                        increasing awareness of the needs of the African American community. For further information,
                        please contact The National BLSA. 
                     
                     Christian Legal Society President: Dominique Winfrey
                     
                     The Christian Legal Society is a non-denominational national organization dedicated
                        to serving Jesus Christ and committed to offering law from a balanced, Christian perspective.
                        Society activities include monthly meetings, guest speakers, and annual barbeques
                        that provide further opportunities for Christian fellowship. For further information,
                        please contact T he Christian Legal Society. 
                     
                     Federal Bar Association President: Jacob Brown
                     
                     The Federal Bar Association is a national organization consisting of more than 16,000
                        attorneys and 1,200 federal judges. The student organization works closely with the
                        Memphis Mid-South Chapter to foster a strong relationship between student members
                        and local federal judges and attorneys. We host several speakers on campus and provide
                        a number of networking opportunities with attorneys who practice in the federal system. 
                     
                     
                     Federalist Society for Law and Public Policy Studies President: Hunter Yoches
                     
                     The Federalist Society is a group composed of conservatives and libertarians interested
                        in promoting awareness of Federalist principles, including: that the state exists
                        to preserve freedom, that the separation of governmental powers is central to our
                        Constitution, and that it is emphatically the province and duty of the judiciary to
                        say what the law is, not what it should be. Please see The Federalist Society for further information. 
                     
                     
                     Health Law Society President: Kelsey Walton
                     
                     The Health Law Society ("HLS") is dedicated to exploring the intersection between
                        medical health care and the judicial system. The HLS examines not only the traditional
                        areas of health law, but also delves deeper into local and national health policy
                        concerns. The HLS strives to enhance the experience and knowledge of its members and
                        the entire Memphis law community. 
                     
                     
                     Hispanic Law Student Association President: Esperanza King
                     
                      HLSA membership is not limited by race or ethnicity. We are an organization geared
                        towards helping students of all races and ethnicities excel throughout law school.
                        Our goal as an organization is to make sure that you succeed in law school academically,
                        culturally and socially. To accomplish this goal, we continually implement programming
                        that addresses the needs of our diverse student body. Whether it is providing mentoring
                        opportunities with the local minority bar association, various social outings, or
                        hosting community service projects, we always have something planned to enrich your
                        experience at the University of Memphis.
                     
                     
                     Honor Council Chief Justice: Gale Robinson
                     
                     The legal profession is a self-regulated profession; meaning judges and lawyers determine
                        their own professional standards and enforce them. That tradition of self-regulation
                        starts in the law school with the Honor Code and Honor Council. The Honor Code is
                        a code of professional and academic standards. The Honor Council enforces the Honor
                        Code. The Honor Council is composed of eleven law students elected by the student
                        body. The Honor Council investigates and prosecutes alleged violations of the Honor
                        Code. All first-year law students will take an oath at law school orientation to honor
                        the values reflected in the Code.
                     
                     
                     More detailed information about the Honor Code can be found in the Academic Regulations and on the Honor Council homepage here. 
                     
                     
                     International Law Students Association President: Alessandra Davey
                     
                     The International Law Students Association is committed to educating students and
                        lawyers, from all over, in the principles and purposes of international law, international
                        organizations and institutions, and comparative legal systems. We hope to achieve
                        this by encouraging communication among students and lawyers from different parts
                        of the world, promoting international understanding and cooperation, and by advancing
                        the legal education of members in general. We also strive to provide opportunities
                        for law students and lawyers to learn about other cultures and legal systems in a
                        system of critical dialogue and international cooperation. 
                     
                     
                     The University of Memphis Law Review Editor-in-Chief: Lyle Gruby
                     
                     The Law Review is a student publication committed to producing a scholarly, legal
                        journal. All of the articles published in the journal are selected by students and
                        edited by students. The notes and comments selected for publication are also written
                        and edited by students. The goal is to provide a publication that will benefit practitioners,
                        judges, professors, students, and others that use this journal in their practice,
                        on the bench, in the classroom, or in their legal research. 
                     
                     
                     Memphis Law+
                     
                     President: Vanessa Murtaugh
                     
                      
                     
                     Moot Court Board
                     
                     Chief Justice: Kendra Lyons
                     
                     The Moot Court Board is dedicated to recognizing, coordinating and fostering excellence
                        in both the appellate and trial advocacy. Duties of the Board include advertising,
                        organizing, and coordinating all intraschool competitions. 
                     
                     
                     National Lawyer's Guild President: Nathaniel Bishop
                     
                     The National Lawyers Guild Student Chapter at Memphis Law aspires to facilitate the
                        discussion of many current issues while ensuring that multiple perspectives of a given
                        issue are heard. The NLG is dedicated to the need for basic change in the structure
                        of our political and economic system. We seek to unite the lawyers, law students,
                        legal workers and jailhouse lawyers to function as an effective force in the service
                        of the people, to the end that human rights shall be regarded as more sacred than
                        property interests. Our aim is to bring together all those who recognize the importance
                        of safeguarding and extending the rights of workers, women, LGBTQ people, farmers,
                        people with disabilities and people of color, upon whom the welfare of the entire
                        nation depends; who seek actively to eliminate racism; who work to maintain and protect
                        our civil rights and liberties in the face of persistent attacks upon them; and who
                        look upon the law as an instrument for the protection of the people, rather than for
                        their repression. 
                     
                     
                     Outlaw President: Mel Borelli
                     
                     OUTLAW is a law student organization geared specifically towards gay, bisexual, lesbian,
                        and trans-gendered legal issues. The Gay-Straight Alliance promotes equality and civil
                        rights while maintaining visibility in the Memphis legal community as a resource for
                        the gay population. For more information, please contact the Human Rights Campaign website or the Memphis Gay and Lesbian Community Center. 
                     
                     Phi Alpha Delta Law Fraternity Chapter Justice: Chris Miller
                     
                     With over 300,000 members, Phi Alpha Delta is the nation's largest co-ed professional
                        law fraternity. It exists to promote the welfare of each member as well as the community
                        by fostering lasting relationships between teachers and students of law, promoting
                        the ideals of liberty and equal justice under the law, stimulating excellence in scholarship,
                        inspiring virtues of compassion and courage, and fostering integrity and professional
                        competence. For further information, please visit Phi Alpha Delta Law Fraternity's
                        national website. 
                     
                     
                     Public Action Law Society President: Danielle Salton
                     
                     The Public Action Law Society (PALS) at the University of Memphis is a student-led
                        organization that seeks to promote volunteerism, community service, and a pattern
                        of activities that will instill in participants a desire to continue in pro bono work
                        after becoming attorneys. PALS coordinates volunteers for a number of different organizations.
                        Volunteers are connected to community service organizations that match the students'
                        interests and abilities. 
                     
                     
                     Sports & Entertainment Law Society (SELS)
                     
                     President: Tanner Ball
                     
                     SELS is a student-run organization dedicated to providing information, career support,
                        and social activity for law students interested in careers within the sports and entertainment
                        industry. We are committed to increasing student exposure to the industry. We plan
                        to arrange guest speakers to provide industry insight and examine topical issue in
                        sports and entertainment law. Through these events, our organization aims to provide
                        a realistic introduction to the entry level sports and entertainment law market for
                        today's law student. For more information, follow @MemphisLaw_SELS on Twitter. 
                     
                     
                     Street Law
                     
                     President: Shrushti Kothari
                     
                      
                     
                     Student Bar Association President: Sydney Van Winkle-Trujilo
                     
                     The Student Bar Association (SBA) is dedicated to connecting all University of Memphis
                        School of Law students into one body to foster fellowship and cooperation as well
                        as advance the aims and purposes of the School of Law. Duties of the association include
                        creating forums to resolve student issues, plan students activities, and partner with
                        other university departments for the advancement of common interests. All students
                        enrolled in the School of Law are automatically members of the SBA. 
                     
                     
                     Tennessee Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers (Student Chapter)
                     
                     President: Nicole Franco
                     
                     The Tennessee Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers (TACDL) at the University of
                        Memphis is the student chapter that focuses on education and support to lawyers representing
                        citizens accused of crime. TACDL members also acts as advocates for a fair and effective
                        criminal justice in the courts, the legislature, and wherever justice demands. TACDL
                        will hold events particularly pertaining to criminal defense, private practice, and
                        indigent clients. TACDL strives to enhance the experience and knowledge of its members
                        and the entire Memphis law community.
                     
                     
                     Additional Information:
                     
                     
                        
                        In addition to law school student organizations, law students are welcome to be a
                           part of the University of Memphis Graduate Student Organization.
                        
                        All law school student organizations must register through Student Leadership and Involvement to become a Registered Student Organization.
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Current Students
                        
                           
                              
                              Registrar
                                    Course & Class Information
                                    Course Catalog
                                    Curriculum
                                    Registration
                                    Calendars
                                    Degree Programs
                                    Part-Time Program
                                    Certificate Programs
                                    Records Request
                                    Graduation Requirements
                                    Academic Regulations
                                    Student Advising
                                    Bar Exam Information
                                 
                              
                              Academic Regulations
                              Student Organizations
                              Student Affairs
                                    Student Affairs Overview
                                    Academic Success Program
                                    Appointment Information
                                    Bar Exam Information
                                    Bookstore
                                    Commencement
                                    Counseling Services
                                    Information Technology
                                    Law School ID Cards
                                    Locker Rentals
                                    Orientation
                                    Parking
                                    TN Lawyers Assistance Prog.
                                    Student Advising
                                    Study Abroad
                                 
                              
                              Financial Information
                              Pro Bono
                              Honor Council
                              GA Timesheet
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply to Memphis Law
                              
                           
                           
                              News & Events
                              
                           
                           
                              Alumni & Support
                              
                           
                           
                              ABA Required Disclosures
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/26/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/law/current-students/student-organizations.php
