http://www.memphis.edu/fedex/cybersummit/speakers.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			FedEx Institute of Technology
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                        
                           			
                           
                           
                           
                           	
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Research Clusters
                        Events
                        Our Team
                     
                     
                        
                           CyberSummit
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Home
                                 Speakers
                                 Sponsors
                                 Agenda
                                 Exhibitors
                                 Registration
                                 Arrivals
                                 Gallery
                                 Past Expos
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	FedEx Institute
                              	
                        
                              	Cyber Summit
                              	
                        Speakers
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Speakers
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Denise D. Wood Corporate Vice President, Information Security and Corporate Systems FedEx Corporation
                     
                     Denise Wood is Corporate Vice President and Chief Information Security Officer for
                        FedEx Corporation. She is responsible for information security and business continuity
                        strategies, processes and technologies that help secure FedEx and its broad portfolio
                        of transportation, e-commerce and business services. Additionally, she provides leadership
                        and strategic direction for innovative human  resource, payroll and financial systems
                        that support annual revenue of $44 billion and more than  300,000 worldwide team members
                        across six operating companies.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Michael Kaiser Executive Director National Cyber Security Alliance
                     
                     Michael Kaiser joined the National Cyber Security Alliance (NCSA) in 2008. As NCSA's
                        chief executive, Mr. Kaiser engages diverse constituencies' business, government and
                        other nonprofit organizations' in NCSA's broad public education and outreach efforts
                        to promote a safer, more secure and more trusted Internet. Mr. Kaiser leads NCSA in
                        several major awareness initiatives, including National Cyber Security Awareness Month
                        (NCSAM) each October, Data Privacy Day (Jan. 28) and STOP. THINK. CONNECT., the global
                        online safety awareness and education campaign. NCSA builds efforts through public-private
                        partnerships that address cybersecurity and privacy issues for a wide array of target
                        audiences, including individuals, families and the education and business communities.
                        In 2009, Mr. Kaiser was named one of SC Magazine's information security luminaries.
                     
                     
                     
                     John C. ("Chris") Inglis Professor U.S. Naval Academy Committees:
                     
                     
                        
                        Member of Information Technology Oversight  
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           Member of Nominating & Governance
                           
                        
                        Mr. Inglis is currently a Visiting Professor of Cyber Studies at the U.S. Naval Academy.
                        He previously served for 28 years at the National Security Agency as a computer scientist
                        and operational manager, retiring in 2014 as the Agency's Deputy Director and senior
                        civilian leader. In this role, he acted as the NSA's chief operating officer responsible
                        for guiding and directing strategies, operations and policy. Prior to joining the
                        NSA, Mr. Inglis had nine years of active duty service as an officer and pilot in the
                        U.S. Air Force, followed by twenty-one years with the Air National Guard, from which
                        he retired as a Brigadier General. Mr. Inglis is currently a director of Huntington
                        Bancshares Inc. and KEYW Corp.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Greg Dennis Group Technology Delivery Lead Communications, Media & Technology operating group Accenture
                     
                     
                     
                     Greg Dennis is the Group Technology Delivery Lead for the Communications, Media &
                        Technology operating group at Accenture. In this role, he is responsible for the technology
                        delivery serving over 250 global clients. Mr. Dennis has nearly 30 years of experience
                        working with clients across many of the industries Accenture serves, including two
                        years during which he was based in Bangalore and responsible for running Application
                        Outsourcing delivery operations for Accenture's Global Delivery Center Network. Mr.
                        Dennis is a Magna Cum Laude and Honors graduate of Texas A&M University with a BS
                        degree in Electrical Engineering. Publications include Mission Critical Java Project
                        Management, Addison Wesley, 1998.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Dr. Andy Ozment Assistant Secretary Cybersecurity and Communications U.S. Department of Homeland Security
                        
                        
                        
                        Dr. Andy Ozment has worked in cybersecurity for almost twenty years as an operator,
                           programmer, policymaker, and executive. He is currently the Assistant Secretary for
                           Cybersecurity and Communications at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). In
                           this role, Dr. Ozment is charged with protecting the government against cyber attacks
                           and helping the private sector protect itself.
                           
                           Klint Walker Cyber Security Advisor Region IV Cybersecurity and Coomunications U.S. Department of Homeland Security
                           
                           
                           
                           Klint Walker is the Cyber Security Advisor for Region IV which covers Alabama, Florida,
                              Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee. With
                              17 years of Cyber Security experience in both the government and private sector, Walker
                              provides expertise to assist critical infrastructure owners and operators to improve
                              their cyber security posture. Additionally, he provides support and guidance for State,
                              Local, Territorial and Tribal government cyber security programs.
                              
                              Jon Weber Director of Enterprise Infrastructure Services University of Memphis
                              
                              Jon Weber is the Director of Enterprise Infrastructure Services for the University
                                 of Memphis, overseeing support for the University's enterprise server and storage
                                 environments, backup and disaster recovery services, and email. He is also responsible
                                 for managing the University's IT Security, Identity Management, and Compliance team
                                 and is involved in several ongoing awareness and policy initiatives. A 15-year veteran
                                 of higher education computing, Jon has experienced at multiple levels the difficult
                                 balance of trying to secure and educate large, open research institutions.
                              
                              
                              Brent Nair Chief Information Officer City of Memphis
                              
                              
                              
                              As a leader in Information Technology, Brent has been involved in Information Technology
                                 management for over 15 years. For the last 6 years he has served as the Chief Information
                                 Officer for the City of Memphis, and has served in leadership roles, with Fortune
                                 100 companies and most recently served as CIO for a national Financial Services firm.
                                 
                                 Dr. Richard T White Cyber Security Architect TDOT
                                 
                                 Dr. White have worked in Information technology for over 40 years. Before he came
                                    to TDOT and became the Cyber Security Architect, he was the Cyber Security Manager
                                    for the Tennessee Military Department National Guard. He was a member of both the
                                    DoD Cyber Defense Team and Cyber Attack Team. He assisted in establishing Cyber warfare
                                    teams all over the world. He have also lectured at many Cyber Security conferences,
                                    radio talk shows, and Universities.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              Stewart Fey, QSA, CISSP, CISA Director of Technical Services
                              
                              
                              
                              Stewart Fey is a Qualified Security Assessor (QSA), Certified Information Systems
                                 Security Professional (CISSP), and Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA), and
                                 has 10 years' experience in the security and audit industry. His previous experience
                                 includes senior manager of IT Internal Audit with a Fortune 100 healthcare company.
                                 Mr. Fey serves as one of LBMC's technical security specialists having significant
                                 experience in security penetration and assessments in operating systems, applications,
                                 and network systems. He is active in the security and audit community and has published
                                 security related articles in various trade magazines. Mr. Fey's recent project experience
                                 includes leading external and internal penetration testing engagements (Ethical Hacking)
                                 for various corporations and government agencies, wireless network assessment and
                                 penetration testing, social engineering assessments, physical security evaluations,
                                 and vulnerability assessments. These projects include: • Social engineering tactics • Wireless network assessment and penetration testing • Physical security evaluations • SAS70 engagements • Vulnerability assessments • IT security and general controls reviews • Web application security review of custom developed systems Mr. Fey is a graduate of the University of Tennessee, Knoxville, with an emphasis
                                 in Information Technology. He continues education annually through ongoing continuing
                                 professional education programs offered by various professional groups. Mr. Fey is
                                 active in and continues to support many professional and civic organizations, including:
                                 Information System Security Association and the Information Systems Audit and Control
                                 Association.
                              
                              
                              Additional Speakers to be announced soon.
                              
                              Questions? University of Memphis Cyber Summit (901) 678-5440 OR (901) 678-2470 www.memphis.edu/fedex/cybersummit/ Thank you for your support!
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        CyberSummit
                        
                           
                              
                              Home
                              Speakers
                              Sponsors
                              Agenda
                              Exhibitors
                              Registration
                              Arrivals
                              Gallery
                              Past Expos
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Research
                              World-class researchers addressing critical emerging technology challenges
                           
                           
                              Technology Transfer
                              The home of University of Memphis intellectual property
                           
                           
                              Corporate Engagement
                              Collaboration leads to innovation
                           
                           
                              Newsroom
                              Catch up on what the Institute has been doing. 
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/13/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/fedex/cybersummit/speakers.php
