http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/students/records/transcript-official.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Registrar
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Register
                        Students
                        Veterans
                        Faculty & Staff
                        Forms
                     
                     
                        
                           Students
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Students
                                 Enrollment Verification
                                 Grades
                                       Overview
                                       GPA and Grading Scale
                                       Grade Change
                                       FAQ
                                    
                                 
                                 Transcripts
                                       
                                       Overview
                                       
                                       Official
                                       
                                       Unofficial
                                       
                                       Lambuth University
                                       
                                       FAQ
                                    
                                 
                                 FERPA and Student Educational Records
                                       Annual FERPA Notification
                                       Release of Student Education Record
                                    
                                 
                                 Changing Personal Data
                                 Withdrawing from UofM
                                 Self Service Guides
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Registrar
                              	
                        
                              	Students
                              	
                        Official Transcript 
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Official Transcript
                     
                     We no longer accept faxed transcript requests or requests submitted as email attachments.
                        All transcript requests and attachments to transcripts must be submitted in one of
                        these three ways:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        In person at the Registrar's Office (003 Wilder Tower).
                        
                        By postal mail, using the Off-Campus Transcript Request form .
                        
                        
                        Online via Transcripts on Demand (TOD).
                        
                     
                     
                     Basic Considerations
                     
                     UofM Undergraduate Applying to UofM Graduate School
                     
                     If you are a UofM undergraduate student applying to Graduate School at UofM, you do
                        not need to request that an official transcript be sent to Graduate Admissions. This
                        office has access to your transcript. NOTE: Should you use TOD to request that a transcript
                        sent anyway, the transcript will not be sent and your TOD charge will not be refunded.
                     
                     
                     Transcript Holds
                     
                     We cannot release your transcript if you have any outstanding obligations to the University
                        (unpaid fees or fines, unreturned equipment or uniforms, etc.), or if a transcript
                        "hold" has been placed on your records for judicial, admissions-related, or other
                        reasons. For more information, see Viewing Holds .
                     
                     
                     Required Information
                     
                     When making a request, regardless of the method you use, be prepared to provide the
                        following:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Your complete name and any former names under which you attended.
                        
                        Your U-Number or the last four digits of your Social Security Number (if you do not have a U-Number).
                           For Transcripts on Demand (TOD), you must provide your complete SSN.
                        
                        
                        Your birth date.
                        
                        The first and last years you attended the University of Memphis.
                        
                        If the transcript should be held for current semester grades or a degree (indicate
                           degree type).
                        
                        
                        If the transcript should be held for a pending grade change (indicate  course and
                           semester).
                        
                        
                        The number of copies desired and mailing addresses.
                        
                     
                     
                     Enclosures
                     
                     Provide/include any enclosures that are to accompany your transcript. Do not mail any
                        enclosure to us, including a request from an outside transcript service, without our
                        Off-Campus Transcript Request form attached. Enclosures often lack the information we need to identify your record,
                        thus, preventing us from processing your request.
                     
                     
                     If you request electronic delivery via TOD, you can upload up to 5 pdf enclosures
                        in your online request.
                     
                     
                     " Issued to Student "
                     
                     Any transcript released directly to you will have ISSUED TO STUDENT stamped or printed on it. 
                        
                     
                     
                     Processing Time
                     
                     Regardless of the Request Method you choose, your transcript must be reviewed and
                        prepared by the Registrar's Office before it can be sent. This process can take several
                        business days (excludes Saturdays, Sundays, and University holidays ).
                     
                     
                     Request Methods
                     
                     Before selecting a method ask yourself these 2 questions:
                     
                     
                        
                        Does the recipient wish to receive my transcript electronically? If "Yes," you must use TOD to request your transcript. If "No," you can use any of
                           our request methods.
                        
                        
                        Do any of my courses pre-date Fall 1988? If “Yes,” then TOD's electronic (PDF) transcript transmission is not available to you. Academic records prior to Fall 1988 are not stored electronically and, therefore,
                           cannot be delivered electronically. You must request a hard copy of your transcript,
                           which you can do through any of the methods below, including TOD.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Methods: Summarizing Features
                     
                     TOD
                     
                     
                        
                        How:
                        
                        
                           
                           Current Students – Login to myMemphis, go to your Student page, and use the "Transcripts on Demand" portlet.
                           
                           
                           Former Students – Visit the Transcripts on Demand website  to complete your request. Since you are not being authenticated through the portal,
                              you will be asked to complete and submit a FERPA release form before you can complete
                              a transcript request. FERPA regulations require that you personally authorize the release of your transcript
                              to a third party.
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Formats: Hard Copy (UofM transcript security paper) or PDF (sent electronically)
                        
                        
                        Costs: $3.00 per transcript destination. Payment by VISA, Mastercard, American Express, or
                           Discover is required.
                        
                        
                        Delivery: PDF transcripts are sent electronically. Hard copies are mailed via USPS. If you want
                           express delivery service, you must call the Registrar's Office at 901.678.3927 to
                           make the arrangements.
                        
                        
                        Other Considerations:
                        
                        
                           
                           AACOMAS - This organization does not accept electronic transcripts, so TOD's PDF is
                              not an option. Visit the AACOMAS website for more information.
                           
                           
                           Teacher Licensure - PDF copies cannot be used for teacher licensure purposes: only
                              hard copies are acceptable.
                           
                           
                           You can attach up to 5 PDF enclosures to your request.
                           
                           TOD is available 24 x 7.
                           
                           Selecting electronic transmission, if available, allows you to check on the status
                              of your request and receive a delivery confirmation message.
                           
                           
                           You cannot use TOD's PDF option if any of your courses pre-date Fall 1988.
                           
                           TOD FAQ page .
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     In Person
                     
                     
                        
                        How: Go to the Registrar's Office, 003 Wilder Tower , to complete an in-office "Transcript Request" form. Be sure to have a picture ID
                           with you.
                        
                        
                        Format: Hard Copy - UofM transcript security paper
                        
                        
                        Costs : Up to 20 copies FREE. Each copy over 20 costs $5.00. If you are requesting more than
                           20 transcripts, you must complete an in-office "Excess Transcripts Charge" form as
                           well.
                        
                        
                        Delivery: Pick up your transcripts in person at 003 Wilder Tower or request that they be mailed
                           (USPS). (If you want your transcript(s) sent by an express delivery service, you must
                           make arrangements with the Registrar's Office.)
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     By Postal Mail
                     
                     
                        
                        How: Complete, sign , and submit an Off-Campus Transcript Request form .  We will not process your request without your handwritten signature . Our Mailing Address is:
                        
                        
                                  University of Memphis / Transcripts / 003 Wilder Tower / Memphis, TN 38152
                        
                        Format: Hard Copy - UofM transcript security paper
                        
                        
                        Costs: Up to 20 copies FREE. Each copy over 20 costs $5.00. If you are requesting more than
                           20 copies, you must complete and submit an Off-campus Excess Transcripts Charge form with your transcript request.
                        
                        
                        Delivery: Pick up your transcripts in person at 003 Wilder Tower or request that they be mailed
                           (USPS). (If you want express delivery service, you must call the Registrar's Office
                           at 901.678.3927 to make arrangements.)
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Students
                        
                           
                              
                              Students
                              Enrollment Verification
                              Grades
                                    Overview
                                    GPA and Grading Scale
                                    Grade Change
                                    FAQ
                                 
                              
                              Transcripts
                                    
                                    Overview
                                    
                                    Official
                                    
                                    Unofficial
                                    
                                    Lambuth University
                                    
                                    FAQ
                                 
                              
                              FERPA and Student Educational Records
                                    Annual FERPA Notification
                                    Release of Student Education Record
                                 
                              
                              Changing Personal Data
                              Withdrawing from UofM
                              Self Service Guides
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Calendars
                              Academic calendars, dates/deadlines, exams.
                           
                           
                              Notice!
                              Check for alerts and reminders.
                           
                           
                              Contact Us 
                               Have questions? Need assistance or information?
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/24/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/students/records/transcript-official.php
