http://www.memphis.edu/criticalconversations/events/index.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Critical Conversations
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Events
                        Faculty
                        Contact
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Critical Conversations
                              	
                        
                           	Events
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Upcoming Events
                     
                     November 2016
                     
                     Free Speech on the University Campus November 9, 2016 12:00 PM 12:00 PM Reception | 12:30 PM Program University Center, Ballroom A | University of Memphis
                     
                     Free and Open to the Public Food will be served
                     
                     Universities across the globe are grappling with the issue of "Free Speech" in classrooms
                           and on campus communities. Some believe that free speech is under attack. Others believe
                           that there is too much protection for abusive or hateful language. Should speech be
                           monitored? Should trigger warnings be added before discussion of sensitive classroom
                           discussions and texts? Where do we draw the line between freedom and abuse, and between
                           sensitivity and censorship? 
                     
                     On November 9, 2016, Professor Steve Mulroy of the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law
                           will facilitate the Critical Conversations forum on free speech.
                     
                     Topics will include:
                     
                      • What is free speech and why do we value it? • Where is the divide between free speech and hate speech? • How do free speech and academic freedom intersect? 
                     
                     Students, representatives from the Offices of Legal Counsel, Conference and Event
                           Planning, Police Services, and the President's Council will be on hand to discuss
                           the University of Memphis' policies and position on free speech. 
                     
                     This event is co-sponsored by: Director of Diversity Initiatives/Office of the Provost;
                           The Critical Conversations Committee at the University of Memphis; the Office of Legal
                           Counsel; the Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change at the University of Memphis,
                           and the Associate Dean for Multicultural Affairs.
                     
                      This is a Critical Conversations Initiative.  The goal of the Critical Conversations
                              is to use our collective scholarship to sustain and facilitate a democratic civil
                              society that values diversity, civil rights, human rights, and nonviolent movements
                              and initiatives.
                     
                     
                     
                     Throughout the year, the University of Memphis and the Hooks Institute will hold a
                           series of events designed to bring students, faculty, and staff from the University
                           together with members of the Memphis community to address issues of social justice
                           and change.  As most events are planned, they will be added here. 
                     
                     Past Events
                     
                     October 2015
                     
                     Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change Open House
                     
                     Panel Discussion: The Hot Summer of 2015: The Nation Faces Old and Retooled Forms
                        of Racial Discrimination: The Intractable Issue of Race in America University of Memphis, Michael D. Rose Theater, 4:30pm reception, 5:00pm open house
                     
                     Topics under discussion include:
                     
                     
                        
                        The Black Lives Matter Movement
                        
                        The Charleston Shootings
                        
                        Policing in Poor and Minority Communities
                        
                        Poverty and Opportunities for Marginalized Groups
                        
                     
                     
                     How do we move our community and nation forward on these issues? Panelists who are leading efforts on these fronts will lead the discussion.
                     
                     
                     Panelists include:
                     
                     
                        
                        Jennifer Stollman, PhD, Academic Director and Consultant in Detecting and Eliminating
                           Institutional and Interpersonal Biases, William Winter Institute for Racial Reconciliation
                           at the University of Mississippi
                        
                        
                        Shelia Peters, PhD, Associate Professor, Fisk University, Former Director of the Fisk
                           Race Relations Institute, with expertise in providing training for cultural competence
                           in communities, institutions and systems of care
                        
                        
                        Earle Fisher, MDiv, Preacher, Writer, Social Activist, and co-spokesperson of the
                           Memphis Grassroots Organizations which stands in solidarity with the #BlackLivesMatter
                           Movement
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Moderator:
                     
                     Andre E. Johnson, PhD, Associate Professor, U of M, Rhetoric, Politics and Society
                        with Emphasis on African American culture
                     
                     
                     This event is free and open to the public. This event is co-sponsored by: Director
                        of Diversity Initiatives/Office of the Provost and The Critical Conversations Committee
                        at the University of Memphis. Convenient and affordable parking available in the public
                        garage on Zach Curlin St. For additional Information about this event, please contact
                        the Hooks Institute at 678-3974.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     The Hunting Ground Film Showing
                     
                     October 6, 2015, Michael D. Rose Theater, 1:00-3:30 PM and 7:00-9:30 PM
                     
                     A viewing of this engaging and provocative documentary on sexual assaults on college
                        campus and the alleged failure of university administrators to pursue aggressive action
                        against student assailants. The documentary trailer is available here. This event
                        is free and open to the public. Students from area colleges and universities are particularly
                        encouraged to attend. Convenient and affordable parking is available in the Zach Curlin
                        Garage.
                     
                     
                     Kirby Dick, writer/director of documentary is a panelist.
                     
                     This event is sponsored by the the Director of Diversity Initiatives/Office of the
                        Provost, the Center for Research on Women, the Critical Conversations Committee, and
                        the Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change. For more information contact Dr.
                        Carol Danehower at crow@memphis.edu.
                     
                     
                     sEPTEMBER 2015
                     
                     Community Leaders Meeting for Critical Conversations
                     
                     September 21, 2015, University of Memphis, Michael D. Rose Theatre, 3:30pm to 4:30pm
                     
                     Through an engaging discussion among students, faculty, staff, and the Memphis community
                        about key issues that impact our city and nation, we hope to sustain and facilitate
                        a democratic civil society that values diversity, civil rights, human rights, and
                        nonviolent movements and initiatives. In order to make this program a success and
                        effect positive change, we need the support and collaboration of leaders and organizations
                        from the broader Memphis area. The purpose of this meeting is to identify and implement
                        tactics that facilitate this collaboration among the U of M and community leaders.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     The Hot Summer of 2015: The Nation Faces Old and Retooled Forms of Racial Discrimination:
                        The Intractable Issue of Race
                     
                     
                     September 16, 2015: Lunch/Student Discussion (limit 30 students) October 01, 2015: Lunch/Student Discussion (limit 30 students) The September 16th and October 1st events are open only to students and faculty facilitators.
                     
                     
                     These lunch-time discussions will focus on the Charleston Shootings, the Black Lives
                        Matter movement, the Rachel Dolezal matter, and the continuing relevance of race in
                        American life. Articles to facilitate discussion will be posted to the Critical Conversations
                        website two weeks prior to the first event.
                     
                     
                     This event is sponsored by the Director of Diversity Initiatives/Office of the Provost,
                        the Critical Conversations Committee, the Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change,
                        and Multicultural Affairs.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     APRIL 2015
                     
                     The Final Word: The Supreme Court, Marriage, Same Sex Couples, and the Constitution
                     
                     April 1, 2015, 4:30 PM Reception, 5 PM Program, University Center, Ballroom C, University
                        of Memphis Free and Open to the Public
                     
                     
                     The hotly contested issue of who one can marry has come before the United States Supreme
                        Court twice in two different contexts. In 1967, in Loving v. Virginia, the United
                        States Supreme Court struck down state laws that banned interracial marriages. Almost
                        50 years later, on April 8, 2015, in DeBoer v. Synder, the Supreme Court will hear
                        arguments on the following two constitutional questions: 1) can a state legally refuse
                        to issue marriage licenses to same sex couples?; and 2) must a state legally recognize
                        marriages of same sex couples legally wed in other states? Two of the plaintiffs in
                        the DeBoer case, Ijpe DeKoe and Thomas Kostura, from Tennessee, are joined by couples
                        from Kentucky, Michigan, and Ohio in their challenge to state laws that do not recognize
                        same-sex marriages.
                     
                     
                     At this event, plaintiffs DeKoe, Kostura, and their attorney Maureen T. Holland from
                        Memphis, TN will discuss the constitutional issues involved in this case.
                     
                     
                     This event is free and open to the public.
                     
                     This event is co-sponsored by the Director of Diversity Initiatives and the Office
                        of the Provost; The Critical Conversations Committee at the University of Memphis;
                        the Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change at the University of Memphis; the
                        Helen Hardin Honors Program; Outlaw American Constitution Society; Stonewall Tigers;
                        and the Honors Student Council. This is a Critical Conversations Initiative. The goal
                        of the Critical Conversations is to use our collective scholarship to sustain and
                        facilitate a democratic civil society that values diversity, civil rights, human rights,
                        and nonviolent movements and initiatives.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                       mARCH 2015
                     
                     Brown (Ferguson, MO), Garner and Martin: Police and Social Justice
                     
                     Tuesday, March 24, 2015, 5:00 – 7:00 pm, University Center Theatre (UC 145) with reception
                        to follow
                     
                     
                     The University of Memphis' Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice will host
                        the panel discussion "Brown, Garner and Martin: Police and Social Justice." In the
                        wake of the recent deaths of Michael Brown, Antonio Martin and Eric Garner, African-American
                        and other communities are grappling with the fairness of American institutions and
                        their processes, including the criminal courts, the grand jury and law enforcement,
                        while others view law enforcement and the administration of criminal justice as fair
                        and just. How do we as a community and nation bridge these divided opinions and experiences?
                        How do we as a nation protect the rights to life, liberty and pursuit of happiness
                        for all people? What issues are at play in policing diverse communities and in the
                        use of deadly force? What are the roles and responsibilities of the prosecutor, the
                        grand jury and the criminal courts? How can citizens improve or change these processes
                        to promote civility, democratic ideals, fairness and equality?
                     
                     
                     Dr. K.B. Turner, Chair of the Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice, will
                        moderate the discussion. The Panelists include: · Anthony Berryhill, Deputy Director, Memphis Police Department · Earle Fischer, Pastor, Abyssinian Missionary Baptist Church, PhD student in Rhetoric · Daphene McFerren, Director, The Benjamin L. Hook's Institute for Social Change · Trey Moore, Criminal Justice Graduate Student, University of Memphis · Steven Mulroy, Professor of Law, University of Memphis · Mary Tucker, Professor of Criminal Justice, University of Memphis
                     
                     
                     This event is free and open to the public. Students are encouraged to express their
                        views during the Q&A session.
                     
                     
                     This event is co-sponsored by the Director of Diversity Initiatives and Office of
                        the Provost, the Critical Conversations Committee at the University of Memphis, and
                        the Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change at the University of Memphis. This
                        is a Critical Conversations Initiative. The goal of the Critical Conversations is
                        to use our collective scholarship to sustain and facilitate a democratic civil society
                        that values diversity, civil rights, human rights, and nonviolent movements and initiatives.
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Hooks Institute
                              Visit the Hooks Institute for other campus events
                           
                           
                              Provost's Blog
                              Visit the Provost's Blog for other exciting campus news
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/31/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/criticalconversations/events/index.php
