http://www.memphis.edu/cwc/staff.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Center For Writing and Communication
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Schedule a Session
                        Resources
                        Presentations
                        FAQ
                        Contact Us
                        Announcements
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	CWC
                              	
                        The Staff Page
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Meet our staff
                     
                       Dr. Scott Sundvall, Director of CWC ssndvall@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-1694 Office: McWherter Library Room 116
                     
                     About:   I’m Scott Sundvall, the new director of the Center for Writing and Communication (CWC).
                        I recently completed my PhD in English at the University of Florida with a specialization
                        in rhetoric and new media. My research has appeared in Media Fields, Itineration,
                        Interstitial, Politics of Place, Rhizomes, and an edited collection, Cybercultures:
                        Mediations of Community, Culture, Politics. I am presently editing a collection with
                        my colleague, Joseph Weakland, entitled, Rhetorical Speculations: The Future and Potential
                        of Rhetoric and Writing Studies, for Utah State University Press. This year my efforts
                        will draw upon my background in rhetoric, writing studies, and media to guide the
                        CWC through its next stage of development. Several improvements are already underway:
                        renovation of the CWC space; implementation of online, evening consultation hours;
                        creation of a social media presence (Facebook and Twitter); and the drafting of grant
                        proposals to fund the institution of a media lab. I am also in the process of proposing
                        a graduate seminar on the theory and practice of writing and communication centers,
                        so as to ensure CWC consultants have effective training and expertise in writing and
                        communication center methodology. With the advent of ubiquitous computing and other
                        emerging technologies, writing, communication, and rhetoric continue to change and
                        adapt. Likewise, I want to offer our clients effective consultations in both the classical
                        and timeless principles of orality and literacy as well as the emerging principles
                        of what Gregory Ulmer marks “electracy.” I strive to make the CWC an inviting and
                        worthwhile opportunity for the entire University of Memphis community.
                     
                        J.R.Briscoe, Graduate Assistant Director jrbrscoe@memphis.edu Office: McWherter Library Room 115
                     
                     About:   J.R. Briscoe has put a decade and more into the study of political communication,
                        news media, and apology. He came to Memphis for PhD study after completing his BS
                        at Brigham Young University and MA at Southern Utah University. He is a proud full-time
                        father, and enjoys baseball, volleyball, motorcycles, and biking. J.R. is currently
                        working on his dissertation which examines the rhetoric of apology within political
                        scandals.
                     
                        Devan Del Conte, Graduate Assistant Director dcdlcnte@memphis.edu Office: McWherter Library Room 115
                     
                     About:   Devan Del Conte holds the prestigious MA assistantship at the CWC. Shortly after completing
                        her Bachelor’s in Physics (she also minored in English literature), Devan joined the
                        MFA program in Creative Writing where she focuses on fiction. She loves words and
                        working with people one-on-one, which is what brings her to work in the CWC. Devan
                        designed and will soon be piloting the CWC’s online tutoring program
                     
                        Chuck Robinson, Graduate Assistant Director clrbnsn3@memphis.edu Office: McWherter Library Room 115
                     
                     About:   Chuck Robinson, one of the CWC’s three graduate student administrators, is close to
                        finishing his PhD dissertation exploring the impact of science on 19th century American
                        literature. Chuck has been with the CWC since its first semester and values all the
                        learning and teaching opportunities it has afforded him. He finds it especially valuable
                        to assist students in becoming aware of their composition process and the ways in
                        which it is customizable. Chuck loves travel and his been all over the world—most
                        recently a three-year stint as an English teacher in South Korea. His interests include
                        science studies, computer programming (at which he is less than an amateur), and posthumanism.
                     
                      Andrea Bishop, Tutor Office: McWherter Learning Commons: CWC
                     
                     About:   One of our most experienced staff members, Andrea Stark Bishop has taught college
                        composition for ten years. At University of Memphis, her PhD studies in composition
                        focus on first year writing and how students write across all disciplines, becoming
                        particularly interested in data-driven research. Working one-on-one with writers is
                        important to Andrea as a powerful way to encourage people to claim ownership of their
                        writing. Through her storied academic career, Andrea has studied English, Religious
                        Studies, and Education, as well as Composition Pedagogy. Outside of school, Andrea
                        spends time with her family, attending football games, marching competitions, and
                        Boy Scout activities in support of her two sons.
                     
                       Adela Brito, Tutor Office: McWherter Learning Commons: CWC
                     
                     About:   Adela Brito, a Miami native, holds a BA in English from Florida International University.
                        She began her professional career as a teacher, and then became an Educational Director
                        for Sylvan Learning Center in Miami. She lived in NYC for sixteen years, where she
                        worked as an editor, test prep instructor, and academic and writing coach. Adela enjoys
                        reading about pop culture and music history and occasionally reviews music, film,
                        and books. She is a professional editor of fiction and memoir, who is currently working
                        on her first novel, Blue Suede Blues, and pursuing an MFA in Creative Writing at the
                        University of Memphis. She loves Elvis, the blues, and soul music.
                     
                       Michelle Carr, Tutor Office: McWherter Learning Commons: CWC
                     
                     About:   Michelle Carr made the long trek from Cal State Long Beach to University of Memphis
                        by way of Southern Utah University. Along the way, she made stops in Sweden and Holland
                        for study abroad. Though she majored in Communications as an undergraduate, she was
                        only one course away from a linguistics minor. Doing her Master’s Degree—also in Communications—at
                        Southern Utah, Michelle developed a penchant for applying high theory to low culture.
                        Her Master’s thesis, for example, developed a Marxist analysis of technology as represented
                        in the Jurassic Park franchise. Beyond rhetoric, technology, and popular culture,
                        Michelle is interested in HGTV, art, and design. Michelle joined the Department of
                        Communication at University of Memphis this fall to pursue her PhD and has been energetically
                        working with CWC clients to develop their argumentative skill since early September.
                     
                       Scarlett Hester, Tutor Office: McWherter Learning Commons: CWC
                     
                     About:   Scarlett Hester received her Bachelor’s in Journalism and English Writing from High
                        Point University and her Master’s in Communication Studies at Ball State, where she
                        wrote a thesis on Lost and masculinity. Her work at the CWC is valuable to her because
                        it provides the opportunity to work one and one, focusing on helping the student through
                        feedback rather than evaluation. Outside the university, she enjoys baking, running,
                        and kickboxing. Scarlett has been at the CWC since it began and is currently in her
                        last year of her PhD program working on her dissertation.
                     
                       Adam Hughes, Tutor Office: McWherter Library Learning Commons: CWC
                     
                     About:   Adam Hughes joined the University of Memphis Department of Communication in 2014 as
                        a PhD student. His research interests include constitutive rhetoric, the rhetoric
                        of technology, and irony. Off campus and after hours, he enjoys biking, traveling,
                        and eating. The sacred proverb, “Keep it simple, stupid!” is especially meaningful
                        to Adam ever since he received praise—and a consequent boost in confidence—upon delivering
                        a largely unprepared conference presentation. Adam was a part of the inaugural staff
                        of the CWC.
                     
                       Bradley Knox, Tutor Office: McWherter Library Learning Commons: CWC
                     
                     About:   After finishing his undergraduate degree, double-majoring in Communication and Linguistics,
                        Bradly Knox made the logical move from Seattle to Memphis. Pursuing his Master’s in
                        Communication at the University of Memphis, Bradley’s main research interests are
                        surveillance and anti-corruption. Bradley’s interests span the academic disciplines;
                        he will take active part in any conversation about philosophy and STEM disciplines.
                        Being particularly excited to support students writing resumes or CVs and preparing
                        for public speaking situations, Bradley also looks forward to tutoring at the CWC
                        as an opportunity to learn more about academic fields other than his own.
                     
                       Andrea Neal, Tutor Office: McWherter Library Learning Commons: CWC
                     
                     About:   Andrea Neal first applied to the CWC upon the suggestion of a classmate and writing
                        partner. Collaborating with this international student, helping her to proofread her
                        papers, Andrea discovered a rewarding application for her study in the University
                        of Memphis MA in English as Second Language (ESL). ESL was a natural step for Andrea
                        who loves studying foreign languages. Her BA, also from University of Memphis, is
                        in Japanese. Currently, she studies French alongside ESL.
                     
                       Christy Rader, Tutor Office: McWherter Library Learning Commons: CWC
                     
                     About:   Christy Rader studies Mass Communication as a Masters Student at the University of
                        Memphis and is currently also working on English teacher certification. Ever since
                        a formative experience Texas’s University Interscholastic League, Christy has valued
                        reading, writing, and speaking and loves helping others to strengthen these essential
                        skills. Christy is an avid reader and occasionally writes fan fiction. She enjoys
                        music, television, movies, and social media. Christy has been at the CWC since its
                        first semester, in 2014.
                     
                       Alyssa Radtke, Tutor Office: McWherter Library Learning Commons: CWC
                     
                     About:   Alyssa Radtke majored in English with a minor in Business Administration at University
                        of Mississippi, where she authored a collection of disability-themed poetry titled
                        Ramped Soapbox. She is currently in her second year of the MFA program at University
                        of Memphis, concentrating on poetry. Describing herself as a “caffeine and comedy
                        girl,” Alyssa also admits to an embarrassing knowledge of fanfiction set in the Star
                        Trek, Marvel, and Outlander universes. It might be said that Alyssa’s devotion to
                        the writing process—and so her career as a writing tutor—began with an AP English
                        essay on Death of a Salesman which she drafted a total of eight times. Alyssa comes
                        to the CWC with three years of experience tutoring at the Ole Miss writing center.
                     
                      Skye Roberson, Tutor Office: McWherter Library Learning Commons: CWC
                     
                     About:   Skye Roberson double-majored in philosophy and psychology at Arkansas State University,
                        where she also received an MA in English Composition and Rhetoric. Her master’s thesis
                        explored punk feminism and its relevance to the history of composition and feminist
                        pedagogy. She is currently pursuing her PhD in Composition Studies at the University
                        of Memphis. For Skye, the most valuable part of working in the CWC is taking part
                        in providing students with a consistent support system and a relaxed environment in
                        which to take authorial ownership of their work. Her academic interests include the
                        history of composition, classical rhetoric, popular culture, feminism, and sound studies.
                        She also pursues a number of hobbies, including crafting perfect playlists, baking,
                        hiking, classic movies, as well as video games and TV (especially Game of Thrones
                        and Bob’s Burgers).
                     
                       Mirella Silva Office: McWherter Library Learning Commons: CWC
                     
                     About:   Mirella Silva came to the University of Memphis from from the Universidade Federal
                        de Ouro Preto, in Brazil where she received a BA in TESOL—Teaching English to Speakers
                        of Other Languages. At Memphis, she completed her MA in British Literature with a
                        specific focus on the Early Modern period. Currently, she is working toward a PhD
                        in Applied Linguistics, more specifically ESL/EFL. Mirella speaks English, Portuguese,
                        and Spanish and has been teaching ESL for 17 years.
                     
                       Abby Smith Office: McWherter Library Learning Commons: CWC
                     
                     About:   Abby Grace Smith double-majored in English and Chinese studies at Rhodes College before
                        joining the University of Memphis Creative Writing MFA program in 2015. Abby has developed
                        a serious commitment to helping others feel more confident about their writing, which
                        began—as it does with so many students——with a challenging high school English teacher.
                        Though her main work is fiction, Abby enjoys a diverse array of interests from the
                        paranormal, to HGTV, to a serious devotion to Diet Pepsi. Recently, her favorite pastime
                        has been long walks in the park—to play Pokémon Go.
                     
                      Justin Williams, Tutor Office: McWherter Library Learning Commons: CWC
                     
                     About:   Research—diving into a subject—is a real pleasure for Justin Williams, who makes the
                        transition this year from one of our earliest graduate student clients to membership
                        in our ever-growing, multi-talented staff. Justin is an avid cyclist, guitarist, and
                        social justice activist—as well as diligent scholar of twentieth century American
                        literature. After graduating with a BA in English and French from Tennessee Technology
                        University, Justin joined the University of Memphis English Department to pursue a
                        PhD in 2015.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              How To Schedule with CWC
                              Easy steps for registering for a one-on-one session
                           
                           
                              Meet our staff
                              We can help with all of your writing and presenting needs
                           
                           
                              Information for students
                              Learn what we can do for you as a student at UofM
                           
                           
                              Information for faculty
                              See how we can work with your classes
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 11/1/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/cwc/staff.php
