http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/index.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                           	Degree Planning
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     College of Arts and Sciences
                     
                     THOMAS J. NENON, PhD Dean
                     
                     ROGER KREUZ, PhD Associate Dean for Graduate Studies & Research and Director of Graduate Programs
                     
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              Department or Division
                              Major
                              Concentration Within Major
                              Degree Offered
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Anthropology
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Anthropology
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 (1) Medical  Anthropology
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Arts (MA)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Biological Sciences
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Biology
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Science (MS)
                                 
                                 Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Center for Earthquake Research and Information
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Geophysics
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Science (MS)
                                 
                                 Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Chemistry
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Chemistry
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 (1) Analytical Chemistry
                                 
                                 (2) Computational Chemistry
                                 
                                 (3) Inorganic
                                 
                                 (4) Organic
                                 
                                 (5) Physical Chemistry
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Science (MS)
                                 
                                 Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 City and Regional Planning*
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 City and Regional Planning
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of City and Regional Planning (MCRP)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Computer Science
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Computer Science
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Science (MS)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Computer Science
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Information Assurance
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Graduate Certificate
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Criminology and Criminal Justice*
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Criminal Justice
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Arts (MA)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Earth Sciences
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Earth Sciences
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Arts (MA)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Earth Sciences
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 (1) Archaeology
                                 
                                 (2) Geography
                                 
                                 (3) Geology
                                 
                                 (4) Interdisciplinary Studies
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Science (MS)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Earth Sciences
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Geographic Information Systems
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Graduate Certificate
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 English
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 English
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 (1) Composition Studies
                                 
                                 (2) English as a Second Language
                                 
                                 (3) Language and Linguistics
                                 
                                 (4) Literature
                                 
                                 (5) Professional Writing
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Arts (MA)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Creative Writing
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Fine Arts (MFA)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 English
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 (1) Applied Linguistics
                                 
                                 (2) Composition Studies
                                 
                                 (3) Professional Writing
                                 
                                 (4) Literary and Cultural Studies
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 African American Literature
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Graduate Certificate
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Teaching English as a Second Language
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Graduate Certificate
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Foreign Languages and Literatures
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Romance Languages
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 (1) French
                                 
                                 (2) Spanish
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Arts (MA)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 History
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 History
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                   Ancient Egyptian History
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Arts (MA)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Mathematical Sciences
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Mathematical Sciences
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 (1) Applied Mathematics
                                 
                                 (2) Mathematics
                                 
                                 (3) Statistics
                                 
                                 (4) Teaching of Mathematics
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Science (MS)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 (1) Applied Statistics
                                 
                                 (2) Mathematics
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Philosophy
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Philosophy
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Arts (MA)
                                 
                                 Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Physics and Materials Science
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Physics
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 (1) Computational Physics
                                 
                                 (2) General Physics
                                 
                                 (3) Materials Science
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Science (MS)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Political Science
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Political Science
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Arts (MA)
                                 
                                 Dual MA/JD
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Psychology
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Psychology
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 General Psychology
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Science (MS)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 School Psychology
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Arts (MA)
                                 
                                 Education Specialist (EdS)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Psychology
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 (1) Clinical Psychology
                                 
                                 (2) Experimental Psychology
                                 
                                 (3) School Psychology
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Public and Nonprofit Administration*
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Public Administration
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 (1) Nonprofit Administration
                                 
                                 (2) Public Management and Policy
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Public Administration (MPA)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Local Government Management
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Graduate Certificate
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Graduate Certificate
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Social Work*
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Social Work
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Advanced Practice with Adults and Families
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                                 Master of Social Work (MSW)
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Advanced Practice in Child, Youth and Families
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Sociology
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Sociology
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Arts (MA)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Interdisciplinary (Art and Anthropology)
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Museum Studies
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Graduate Certificate
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Interdisciplinary Programs
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Bioinformatics
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Science
                                 
                                 Graduate Certificate
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Cognitive Science
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Graduate Certificate
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Women's and Gender Studies
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Graduate Certificate
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     *These academic units are part of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy .
                     
                     
                     The College of Arts and Sciences, which includes the School of Urban Affairs and Public
                        Policy, contains eighteen departments and one division, each of which offers graduate
                        degrees.The College also offers three interdisciplinary degree programs and several
                        graduate certificate programs. Candidates for each of these degrees must pursue a
                        curriculum plan that has the approval of their major advisor, the department chair
                        or division director, and the Graduate Dean. All graduate students must comply with
                        the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) and the program requirements of the degree being pursued (see departmental or divisional
                        listings in this section).
                     
                     
                     Individual program requirements described in the Graduate School Issue of the 2016-2017
                        Graduate Catalog of The University of Memphis are subject to change. Please consult your department or the Office of the Graduate School for changes that
                           may occur before publication of the next issue of this Catalog; or consult the Graduate School Web site at: http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool for annual updates.
                     
                     
                     MASTER’S DEGREES:
                     
                     The programs for the MASTER OF ARTS degree are generally open to those who have completed the Bachelor of Arts degree.
                        Those with a Bachelor of Science degree may enroll in these programs if undergraduate
                        prerequisites are met. Students majoring in the following areas may pursue the Master
                        of Arts degree: Anthropology, Criminal Justice, Earth Sciences, English, History,
                        Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Romance Languages, and Sociology (see departmental
                        listings).
                     
                     
                     The MASTER OF FINE ARTS IN CREATIVE WRITING is a 48-semester-hour program for students who plan to pursue a career in fiction
                        writing or poetry. Admission to the program is based primarily on a portfolio of work
                        in the student’s chosen genre. The course work includes both literature and writing
                        classes, and culminates with submission of a publishable collection of fiction or
                        poetry as the thesis.
                     
                     
                     The program for the MASTER OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION is generally open to students with preparation in the social sciences or in business
                        courses. Students working toward this interdisciplinary degree complete a core curriculum
                        in public and non-profit administration courses and a concentration in one of the
                        following areas: General Public Administration or Nonprofit Administration.
                     
                     
                     The programs for the MASTER OF SCIENCE degree are generally open to students with a science background. Students enrolled
                        in the following areas may pursue the Master of Science degree: Biological Sciences,
                        Chemistry, Computer Science, Earth Sciences, Mathematical Sciences, Physics and Materials
                        Science, and Psychology (see departmental listings).
                     
                     
                     The MASTER OF CITY AND REGIONAL PLANNING is a professional degree for students interested in government and business careers.
                        Students complete the following: a core curriculum of 30 semester hours; a 15-hour
                        elective curriculum with possible subjects in economic development planning, urban
                        design, land use and transportation planning, planning information systems, housing
                        and community development, planning law, and environmental planning; and a 3-hour
                        Capstone Project that integrates one or more elective subjects with the core curriculum.
                     
                     
                     The mission of the MASTER OF SOCIAL WORK program is to educate advanced professional social workers for practice with at-risk
                        populations, particularly children and families. Housed within the School of Urban
                        Affairs and Public Policy (SUAPP), the Department of Social Work is dedicated to (a)
                        educating social workers with knowledge, values and skills for evidence-based practice
                        with children and families, (b) advancing the knowledge base of the social work profession
                        and (c) providing regional leadership in the development and implementation of policies,
                        programs and services for at-risk populations, particularly children and families.
                     
                     
                     DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY DEGREE
                     
                     The Doctor of Philosophy Degree is offered in the following departments within the
                        College of Arts and Sciences: Biological Sciences, Center for Earthquake Research
                        and Information, Chemistry, Computer Science, Earth Sciences, English, History, Mathematical
                        Sciences, Philosophy, and Psychology. General requirements for the PhD Degree are
                        outlined in these departmental listings. More detailed information about prerequisites,
                        course work, research requirements, etc., may be obtained from the chair or graduate
                        coordinator of the respective departments. Any of these departments may choose to
                        admit a student to doctoral study without requiring the master’s degree as a prerequisite.
                     
                     
                     GRADUATE CERTIFICATES
                     
                     Graduate certificates are offered in African American Literature (Department of English),
                        Bioinformatics (Center for Interdisciplinary Studies), Cognitive Science (Interdisciplinary),
                        Geographic Information Systems (Department of Earth Sciences), Information Assurance
                        (Department of Computer Science), Local Government Management (Public and Nonprofit
                        Administration), Museum Studies (Departments of Anthropology and Art), Philanthropy
                        and Nonprofit Leadership (Public and Nonprofit Administration), Teaching English as
                        a Second Language (Department of English), and Women's and Gender Studies (Center
                        for Interdisciplinary Studies).
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/index.php
