http://www.memphis.edu/art/
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Art
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Programs
                        People
                        Facilities
                        Resources
                        News/Events
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                           	Department of Art
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Memphis is Art.
                     
                     The University of Memphis Department of Art educates students in visual arts and design
                        from a holistic perspective: practical, theoretical, and historical. Whether the focus
                        is studio, art history, art education, or graphic design, undergraduate and graduate
                        students develop a creative voice and professional practice through the cultivation
                        of skill, critical analysis, and an understanding of art's evolution over time and
                        place.
                     
                     
                     Memphis has a deeply rooted, well-known cultural history as fertile ground for world-changing
                        creative expression in art, music, and literature. Located in the center of the city,
                        the Department of Art critically engages this heritage as a source for its own identity
                        and inspiration, while at the same time taking up broader contemporary issues and
                        questions from a global perspective.
                     
                     
                     News/Events
                     
                     U of M's Egyptian Institute Will Host November 10th Lecture "City of the Falcon: Excavations at Egypt's Earliest Capital"
                     
                     
                     The Institute of Egyptian Art & Archaeology and the Department of History of the University
                        of Memphis, in association with the Tennessee Chapter of the American Research Center
                        in Egypt, will co-host the eleventh annual William J. Murnane Memorial Lecture on
                        Thursday, Nov. 10, in the Art and Communications Building, room 310. Dr. Renee Friedman,
                        Curator in the Department of Ancient Egypt and Sudan at the British Museum, London,
                        will present at 7:00 p.m. A reception will precede the lecture, at 6:15 p.m. Both
                        events are free and open to the public. Pay parking is available in the Innovation
                        Garage (Lot 40), located next to the Fogelman Executive Center. Dr. Friedman earned her doctorate at the University of California, Berkeley, and is
                        a world renowned scholar specializing in the earliest stages of ancient Egyptian prehistory
                        and history. She has extensive field experience in Egypt, including leading excavations
                        at the ancient city of Nekhen / Hierakonpolis, where she has served as director since
                        1996.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Friedman will be speaking on the ancient Egyptian city of Nekhen, which was known
                        to the Greeks and Romans as Hierakonpolis ("Hawk-town"). Nekhen was one of the largest
                        urban centers during the fourth millennium bce. Its great temple of the hawk god Horus
                        produced some of the most important early artifacts known from ancient Egypt, including
                        the Narmer palette, which appears to document the unification of Upper and lower Egypt
                        over 5,000 years ago. The site continues to yield important information about Egyptian
                        history. Dr. Friedman will present some of her most recent research on the site.
                     
                     
                     For more information, email Dr. Joshua Roberson at jrbrson4@memphis.edu or the IEAA
                        at 901-678-2555.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     U of M's Egyptian Institute Will Host October 27th Lecture "Magic and Demonology in
                        Ancient Egypt"
                     
                     
                      The Institute of Egyptian Art & Archaeology, in association with the Tennessee Chapter
                        of the American Research Center in Egypt, will host a public lecture on Thursday,
                        Oct. 27, in the Art and Communications Building, room 310. Dr. Rita Lucarelli, Assistant
                        Professor of Egyptology at the University of California, Berkeley, will present at
                        7:00 p.m. A reception will precede the lecture, at 6:15 p.m. Both events are free
                        and open to the public. Pay parking is available in the Innovation Garage (Lot 40),
                        located next to the Fogelman Executive Center.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Lucarelli studied at the University of Naples "L'Orientale," Italy, and received
                        her M.A. degree in Classical Languages and Egyptology. She holds her Ph.D. from Leiden
                        University in the Netherlands. She is currently completing a monograph on demonology
                        in ancient Egypt and she is one of the coordinators of the Ancient Egyptian Demonology
                        Project: www.demonthings.com . In 2006, her doctoral dissertation was published as  The Book of the Dead of Gatseshen: Ancient Egyptian Funerary Religion in the 10th
                           Century BC. 
                     
                     Dr. Lucarelli will be speaking on the character of ancient Egyptian magical practices,
                        with a special focus on the role of demons. Dr. Lucarelli will discuss the current
                        scholarly understanding of the terms "magic" and "demons" in ancient Egypt. Information
                        from Egyptian texts and artifacts, including magical spells and objects employed in
                        ritual contexts, will be presented and comparative views with other demonologies from
                        antiquity will also be explored.
                     
                     
                     For more information, email Dr. Joshua Roberson at jrbrson4@memphis.edu or the IEAA
                        at 901-678-2555.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     "TED Talks: Education Revolution" Featuring tons of stage video design by fellow Memphians/UofM Asst. Professor Brandon
                        Bell
                     
                     
                     PBS (WKNO at 9:00 pm) Tuesday, September 13th
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     On Tues, Sept 13 (WKNO at 9:00 pm), PBS will air the last of three "TED Talks" specials
                        highlighting themes from last November's six-night series of "TED Talks Live" in NYC.
                        I worked with photographer Sarah Rossi and animator Dan Baker (both Memphis-based)
                        to create all the stuff on stage behind the speakers & performers: it's a full-stage
                        video screen with content created here in Memphis.
                     
                     
                     The program is hosted by producer and comedian Baratunde Thurston and actor and singer
                        Sara Ramirez, and features talks by educators Sal Khan, Victor Ros, Nadia Lopez, and
                        Julie Lythcott-Haims. It also showcases performances by Meshell Ndegeocello and Anna
                        Devere Smith.
                     
                     
                     Physical set design is by NYC-based Seth Easter Design and consisted entirely of LED
                        screens wrapping the stage. The screens are filled with animations, video, and photography
                        that we designed, and was programmed on-site at Broadway's Town Hall Theater with
                        NY-based Peter Acken. Sarah & I photographed some of the material for this series
                        here at the UofM, as well as Idlewild Elementary in Midtown (shown below in blue-green)
                        and Memphis Equipment Company downtown.
                     
                     
                     More info: http://www.pbs.org/program/ted-talks/ted-talks-education-revolution/
                     
                     
                     
                     SUE JOHNSON: HOME OF FUTURE THINGS
                     
                     September 16 – November 11 Artist Lecture: September 15, 7 pm (ACB 310) Opening Reception: September 16, 5-7:30 pm
                     
                     
                     Sue Johnson: Home of Future Things is an exhibition featuring works by the artist Sue Johnson that considers the cyclical
                        nature of mass consumption. The exhibition features small-scale works on paper as
                        well as floor-to-ceiling vinyl panels and decals that the artist has designed—transforming
                        the gallery into the interior of an ideal, modern home. As the exhibition title suggests,
                        Johnson envisions a world in which the home is nostalgic and familiar yet also reduced
                        to an empty space existing simply to house various things. Johnson's work makes various
                        art historical allusions ranging from ancient Greek mosaics and 17th-century Dutch
                        still-life paintings to Dada and Pop collages. Despite spanning a vast expanse of
                        time and place, these references share a common fascination with commodities and excess
                        that Johnson remixes through a 21st-century lens. Specifically, her work is rooted
                        in the Dutch still-life tradition of vanitas —images that contemplate the transience of life through the display of objects with
                        symbolic meaning. Her process intentionally blurs the boundaries between the real
                        and imagined,historical and timeless, hand-painted and digital. What results is an
                        immersive environment constantly tugging at our sense of reality.
                     
                     
                     Image: Sue Johnson, Shag Lawn , 2016. 48 in. diameter, vinyl floor decal. Courtesy of the artist.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     RODRIGO VALENZUELA: FRONTIERS
                     
                     August 26 – October 14 Artist Lecture: August 25, 7 pm (ACB 310) Opening Reception: August 26, 5-7:30 pm
                     
                     
                     Rodrigo Valenzuela: Frontiers features the work of Chilean-born, Houston-based artist Rodrigo Valenzuela. The exhibition
                        marks the artist's foray into painting, building off of earlier photographic work
                        for which he is known, and also includes two video works that address issues of labor
                        and migration. The notion of the frontier, long mythologized in the United States
                        through the doctrine of Manifest Destiny, transcends into more nebulous, global territory
                        in this exhibition. Venturing into uncharted lands in search of something greater
                        is a thrilling yet alienating experience. Inherent to this journey is the role of
                        labor and construction in the broadest sense—the way we fabricate dreams of a better
                        future to the very real work required to get there.
                     
                     
                     The Spanish word for "frontier," la frontera, is most commonly used to refer to the border between the U.S. and Mexico. Featured
                        in the exhibition are two video works that humanize and make visible the "invisible
                        labor," as Valenzuela calls the manual labor often performed by immigrants and people
                        of color. The exhibition will also showcase Valenzuela's new image-transfer paintings
                        that present fragmented, barren landscapes spliced with geometric forms. They are
                        amalgamations of the many places the artist has lived and visited, evoking a sense
                        of being the first to inhabit a foreign, empty land.
                     
                     
                     Central to the ethos of the exhibition is a collaborative installation called MDF (2016) created by Valenzuela and a team of undergraduate students from The University
                        of Memphis Department of Art. Tying into the Fogelman Galleries' identity as a teaching
                        gallery, Valenzuela will introduce students to image transfer techniques and other
                        aspects of his process during his week-long visit to Memphis. Together, their efforts
                        will result a new landscape made by the hands of many.
                     
                     
                     Additionally, Valenzuela will give a public lecture on Thursday, August 25 at 7 pm
                        in Room 310 in the Art and Communications Building, located at 3715 Central Avenue.
                        An opening reception will be held the following day on Friday, August 26 from 5-7:30
                        pm in the Fogelman Galleries. The reception will also celebrate the opening of the
                        exhibition Infoxication: Ruben Garnica.
                     
                     Rodrigo Valenzuela (b. 1982, Santiago, Chile) completed an art history degree at the
                        University of Chile (2004), then worked in construction while making art over his
                        first decade in the United States, completing an MFA at University of Washington in
                        2012. Using staged scenes and digital interventions, Valenzuela's photography, video
                        and installation work is rooted in the contradictory traditions of documentary and
                        fiction, often involving narratives around immigration and the working class.
                     
                     
                     Valenzuela's residencies include a Core Fellowship at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston
                        (Texas), Skowhegan (Maine), Bemis Center (Nebraska), and the Center for Photography
                        at Woodstock (New York). Valenzuela is recipient of several awards, including an Artist
                        Trust Arts Innovator Award (2014). Recent solo exhibitions include David Shelton Gallery,
                        Houston (2016), the Frye Art Museum, Seattle (2015), Museo de Arte Contemporaneo,
                        Santiago (2015), envoy enterprises, NewYork (2015) and Upfor Gallery, Portland, OR
                        (2015). His work is in the collections of the Frye Art Museum, Seattle; Samuel Dorsky
                        Museum of Art, New Paltz; the de Bont collection and Dimensional Fund Advisors. Valenzuela
                        is selected for the 2016-17 Open Sessions at The Drawing Center, New York.
                     
                     
                     Image: Rodrigo Valenzuela, Sense of Place No. 3 , 2016. Toner, acrylic, chalk on canvas, 53 x 70 in. Collection of Zach Huntting.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Jerry and Terry Lynn
                     
                     Nashville Arts Magazine
                     
                     "While students at the University of Memphis, Jerry and Terry took an art class where
                        they were assigned a collaborative art assignment. It was a no-brainer that the twins
                        would pair up for this, and the project 'signified a fundamental change in our collaborative
                        paintings,' according to Terry Lynn.
                     
                     
                     The creative process for the twins' collaborative art often baffles collectors, who
                        assume the brothers must have a defined technique to accomplish pieces that flow so
                        smoothly. However, the brothers insist that there is no one way they create their
                        collaborative art. On the contrary, Terry says, 'Sometimes Jerry will start a painting;
                        other times I will come up with a sketch or idea. There is no one way we create. Our
                        twin collaborative art is about working together.'"
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     RUBEN GARNICA: INFOXICATION
                     
                     August 22 – September 9
                     
                     Ruben Garnica: Infoxication is the first solo exhibition of recent University of Memphis BFA graduate Ruben Garnica.
                        The exhibition features sound, light, and video installations that grapple with today's
                        information overload, or "infoxication," as some critics have called it. Garnica creates
                        an immersive, multi-sensory environment in which layers of sound and image overwhelm
                        the visitor, making information almost incomprehensible.
                     
                     
                     Faculty in the Department of Art at The University of Memphis selected Garnica from
                        the 2016 graduating Bachelor of Fine Arts class for this prestigious solo exhibition.
                        An annual tradition, this exhibition provides outstanding graduates with the opportunity
                        to present a body of work as well as develop and execute an exhibition concept with
                        Fogelman Galleries staff.
                     
                     
                     Ruben Garnica (b. 1983, Guadalajara, Mexico), originally from Degollado, Jalisco,
                        Mexico, moved to Nashville, TN, at the age of 15. Garnica received his BFA from the
                        University of Memphis with a concentration in Studio Arts in 2016. He has exhibited
                        in various cities in the region of Murcia, Spain, as well in various exhibitions in
                        Memphis, TN. He was awarded Best in Show in the 32rd Annual Juried Student Exhibition at the Art Museum of the University of Memphis (2015). His most recent group exhibitions
                        include INFLUX at The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art (2016) and Mi sur/ My South at Crosstown Arts, Memphis (2015).
                     
                     
                     Image: Ruben Garnica, Mitote , 2016. PVC, LED lights, and speakers. Courtesy of the artist. 
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Print Advertising Gold Award
                     
                     Hunter Hamilton, BFA Graphic Design 2015, won a Gold Award in the Print Advertising
                        Category at the Arkansas State University chapter of The American Institute of Graphic
                        Arts Student Graphic Design Show in March for a poster he designed for the University
                        of Memphis Focus Fest Film Festival.
                     
                     
                     Gary Golightly, Associate Professor of Graphic Design, has a poster featured in the
                        book Presenting Shakespeare: 1,100 Posters from Around the World , by Steven Heller and Mirko Ilic, published by Princeton Architectural Press last
                        fall. Presenting Shakespeare collects 1,100 posters for Shakespeare's plays, designed
                        by an international roster of artists representing 55 countries, from Japan to Colombia,
                        India, Russia, Australia, and beyond. Professor Golightly's poster was done for the
                        University of Memphis Department of Theatre & Dance in 2010, for the production of
                        Shakespeare's Comedy of Errors . The poster was also included in the exhibit Presenting Shakespeare: Much Ado About Posters , at the Art Director's Club gallery in New York, from May 5-19.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     INTERVIEW WITH CORIANA CLOSE
                     
                     
                     
                     Assistant Professor Coriana Close, was recently interviewed in The Focus, for Locate Arts. She talks about several recent projects including work currently on view at Mysterious
                        Flight of the Peacock, Coop Popup Gallery Nashville.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Art of the South 2016 Juried Exhibition presented by Number: Inc
                     
                     May 16 – June 17, 2016 Opening reception: June 20
                     
                     
                     A juried exhibition, open to all artists 18 and older working in any media residing
                        in AL, AR, FL, GA, KY, LA, MA, MO, MS, NC, OK, TN, TX, SC, VA, or WV. Accepted work
                        will be exhibited in one of two locations: The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries
                        of Contemporary Art at the University of Memphis and Gallery 121 at Belmont University
                        in Nashville. The two galleries will be connected through Skype the night of the opening
                        (May 20) and will be open to the public from May 16 – June 17, 2016. Juror: Chad Alligood,
                        Assistant Curator of Special Projects at Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art, Bentonville,
                        AR.
                     
                     
                     For more information, please visit  numberinc.org/art-of-the-south/
                     
                     
                     
                     Virginia Overton The Aldrich Contemporary art museum
                     
                     
                     May 1, 2016, to February 5, 2017 Opening Reception: Sunday, May 1, 2 to 5 pm
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Graphic Design Senior SHOW
                     
                     
                     
                     May 5, 2016
                     
                     Reception: Thursday, May 5, 6-8 PM
                     
                     Join us for a one-night only exhibition of works by graduating University of Memphis
                        undergraduate Graphic Design students. Presenters include Ethan Fowler, Hunter Hamilton,
                        Taylor Holland Nicole Lee, DaVario Looney, Shakeya Merriweather, Amanda Mize, Britany Neely, and
                        Amy Nguyen.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Cedar Lorca Nordbye presentation from Ignite Memphis at Playhouse on the Square
                     
                     
                           
                     
                     
                     
                     INTERVIEW WITH CORIANA CLOSE
                     
                     
                     
                     Assistant Professor Coriana Close, was recently interviewed in The Focus, for Locate Arts. She talks about several recent projects including work currently on view at Mysterious
                        Flight of the Peacock, Coop Popup Gallery Nashville.
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply now!
                              Be part of our artistic community.
                           
                           
                              Visit! 
                              The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art
                           
                           
                              Donate now!
                              Support future professional artists.
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Office hours and location
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        Follow Us Online
                        
                           Facebook
                        
                                          
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 11/8/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/art/
