http://www.memphis.edu/rsp/compliance/faq.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Division of Research and Sponsored Programs
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Vice President
                        Compliance/IRB
                        Sponsored Programs
                        Research Development
                     
                     
                        
                           Research Compliance
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Human Subjects and IRB
                                       
                                       Overview
                                       
                                       Educational Requirements
                                       
                                       Meetings/Members
                                       
                                       Exemption
                                       
                                       Decision Guide
                                       
                                       Adverse Events
                                       
                                       FAQ
                                       
                                       Glossary
                                       
                                       IRB Guidelines and Templates
                                       
                                       IRB Policy
                                    
                                 
                                 Cayuse IRB
                                 FAQ-Cayuse
                                 Responsible Conduct
                                 Conflict of Interest
                                 Export Control
                                 Whistleblowers
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	RSP
                              	
                        
                              	Research Compliance
                              	
                        FAQ
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Frequently Asked Questions
                     
                     All research that involves human subjects must be reviewed and approved by the Human
                        Subjects Institutional Review Board (IRB) prior to initiation.
                     
                     
                     Q. What ethical principles guide the IRB in the protection of human subjects?
                     
                     A. Three basic principles of ethics are particularly relevant to the protection of
                        human subjects in research. They are:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                         respect for persons: recognition of the personal dignity and autonomy of individuals
                           and special protection of those persons with diminished autonomy;
                        
                        
                         beneficence: obligation to protect persons from harm by maximizing anticipated benefits
                           and minimizing possible risks of harm; and
                        
                        
                         justice: fairness in the distribution of research benefits burdens.
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Q. What are the components of IRB Review?
                     
                     A. In reviewing research the HSIRB gives proper consideration to the following:
                     
                     
                        
                         risks to the subjects
                        
                         anticipated benefits to the subjects and others
                        
                         importance of the knowledge that may be reasonably expected to result from the research
                        
                         consent process to be employed
                        
                     
                     
                     The IRB reviews research involving human subjects if one or more of the following
                        apply:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                         the research is sponsored by UM, regardless of the location of the project
                        
                         the research is conducted by, or under the direction of, any staff, faculty, student,
                           or other agent of UM in connection with his or her institutional responsibilities
                        
                        
                         the research is conducted by or under the direction of any employee or agent of UM
                           using any property or facility of UM
                        
                        
                         the research involves the use of UM's non-public information to identify or contact
                           human research subjects or prospective subjects
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Special consideration is required for research involving fetuses, pregnant or lactating
                        women, human ova in vitro fertilization, prisoners, children, persons with cognitive impairment, or other potentially
                        vulnerable groups.
                     
                     
                     Q. What is the difference between the three levels of IRB review (minimal, expedited,
                           and full board)?
                     
                     A. Research in the minimal review category is exempt from applicable federal regulations, although review by the IRB
                        is still required. Minimal review research must be anonymous and at least one of the
                        following:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        commonly accepted educational settings involving normal education practice
                        
                        educational tests if the information is taken so that subjects cannot be identified
                        
                        (does not apply to children) surveys or interviews that do not deal with sensitive
                           aspects of the subject's own behavior (such as drug use, sexual activity, or criminal
                           activity), or in which the subject's responses would not place the subject at risk
                           of liability, or threaten financial standing or employability
                        
                        
                        (needs not be anonymous) surveys or interviews of elected or appointed public officials
                           or candidates for office
                        
                        
                        (does not apply to children) observation of public behavior that does not deal with
                           sensitive aspects of the subject's own behavior or in which the subject's responses
                           would not place the subject at risk of liability or threaten financial standing or
                           employability
                        
                        
                        collection or study of existing data, documents, records, or biological specimens
                           as long as they are publicly available* research or demonstration projects of programs
                           under the Social Security Act or other public benefit or service programs
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Research in the expedited category is that which poses no more than minimal risk to the subject involving no
                        more than:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        collection of hair, nail clippings, baby teeth or teeth in need of extraction
                        
                        collection of excreta, sweat, saliva, placenta and amniotic fluid at delivery
                        
                        non-invasive recording of data from subjects 18 years of age or older using routine
                           clinical procedures (not including x-rays and microwaves)
                        
                        
                        collection of blood samples of limited volume and frequency from subjects 18 years
                           of age or older
                        
                        
                        collection of dental plaque via routine scaling of teeth using accepted techniques
                           voice recordings for research purposes (e.g., of speech defects)
                        
                        
                        moderate exercise by healthy volunteers
                        
                        study of existing data, records, or specimens
                        
                        research where the researchers do not manipulate subjects' behavior and the research
                           will not involve stress to subjects
                        
                        
                        research on drugs or devices for which an investigational new drug exemption or an investigational device exemption is not required
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Research which is neither minimal nor expedited requires the full board category of review.
                     
                     
                     Q. What happens to my protocol after it is submitted to the IRB?
                     
                     A. The IRB Administrator processes the submitted protocol, inputs necessary information
                        into the database, and assigns the protocol a unique number and determines appropriate
                        level of review. Investigators are notified as soon as possible of the decisions relating
                        to the protocol (i.e., request for revisions or approval).
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Q. What kind of timeline should I expect for being able to begin data collection?
                     
                     A. Please allow up to four weeks for the IRB to process your submission.
                     
                      
                     
                     Q. The site where I intend to conduct my research has its own IRB. Does my protocol
                           have to be reviewed by the site IRB and the University of Memphis IRB? If so, how
                           do I do this?
                     
                     A. Some sites of research activity, such as hospitals, community mental health organizations,
                        and other universities, have IRBs to review the research conducted at that site. Each IRB must approve your project
                        prior to implementation.
                     
                     
                     You may submit your protocol for review to both boards simultaneously or to each board
                        consecutively. Each board may request different revisions based on interpretations
                        of the federal regulations. Remember that it is your responsibility as the investigator
                        to notify each board of the decisions of the other board. You must also remember to
                        submit any revisions to both boards and you must receive approval from both boards
                        before implementing any aspect of the research.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Q. What about changes in the protocol once it has been approved?
                     
                     A. All changes in a research protocol must be approved before the change is incorporated
                        into the protocol. These should also be submitted to the IRB in memo form, including
                        the protocol number to speed processing.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Q. What are the responsibilities of the Principal Investigator?
                     
                     A. The principal investigator is responsible for:
                     
                     
                        
                        the compliance of all co-investigators, student investigators, and research associates
                           with the IRB decisions, conditions, and requirements
                        
                        
                        reporting to the IRB any changes to the research protocol (e.g., research design of
                           the study, recruitment procedures)
                        
                        
                        requesting re-approval when contact with subjects will extend beyond the approval
                           termination date
                        
                        
                        reporting to the IRB chair any unanticipated adverse reactions or unanticipated events
                           associated with the conduct of this research
                        
                        
                        seeking clarification and advice from the IRB regarding ethical aspects of the research.
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Q. I am conducting research at another institution, but I am a student/faculty member
                           at the University of Memphis. The Institutional Review Board at the institution where
                           I am conducting my research has already approved me. Do I need Institutional Review
                           Board approval from the University of Memphis as well?
                     
                     A. : The answer most likely is yes; See the Collaboration Section on the Initial Review
                        Request Guidelines for more information.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Q. Why do I need both approvals?
                     
                     A. : Other institutions considerations when making a decision may differ based on
                        their institutional policies than those considerations used here at the University
                        of Memphis. Therefore, as a University of Memphis student / faculty member, your research
                        still requires University of Memphis Institutional Review Board approval.
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Research Compliance
                        
                           
                              
                              Human Subjects and IRB
                                    
                                    Overview
                                    
                                    Educational Requirements
                                    
                                    Meetings/Members
                                    
                                    Exemption
                                    
                                    Decision Guide
                                    
                                    Adverse Events
                                    
                                    FAQ
                                    
                                    Glossary
                                    
                                    IRB Guidelines and Templates
                                    
                                    IRB Policy
                                 
                              
                              Cayuse IRB
                              FAQ-Cayuse
                              Responsible Conduct
                              Conflict of Interest
                              Export Control
                              Whistleblowers
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Forms
                              Forms and other useful information
                           
                           
                              electronic Research Administration (eRA)
                              Cayuse SP/424/IRB
                           
                           
                              Resources
                              Institutional information and resources for the researcher
                           
                           
                              Staff
                              Staff of Research and Sponsored Programs and Grants Accounting
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/26/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/rsp/compliance/faq.php
