http://www.memphis.edu/rsp/compliance/faq_cayuse.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Division of Research and Sponsored Programs
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Vice President
                        Compliance/IRB
                        Sponsored Programs
                        Research Development
                     
                     
                        
                           Research Compliance
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Human Subjects and IRB
                                       Overview
                                       Educational Requirements
                                       Meetings/Members
                                       Exemption
                                       Decision Guide
                                       Adverse Events
                                       FAQ
                                       Glossary
                                       IRB Guidelines and Templates
                                       IRB Policy
                                    
                                 
                                 Cayuse IRB
                                 FAQ-Cayuse
                                 Responsible Conduct
                                 Conflict of Interest
                                 Export Control
                                 Whistleblowers
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	RSP
                              	
                        
                              	Research Compliance
                              	
                        FAQ - Cayuse
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     FAQ - Cayuse
                     
                      For general IRB FAQ, click here .
                     
                     
                        
                        What do I use Cayuse IRB for?
                        
                        How do I log in?
                        
                        What is my username and password?
                        
                        Who is able to access and edit my study and submissions?
                        
                        Whom do I contact for help?
                        
                        I can't log into Cayuse IRB. What's wrong?
                        
                        I submitted a renewal/continuing review to irb@memphis.edu, why is Cayuse IRB sending
                                 messages saying my study is about to expire?
                        
                        What is a Legacy Study?
                        
                        Why is CayuseIRB sending me incorrect notifications?
                        
                        How do I renew, modify, report an incident, and/or close my study if it was approved
                                 before CayuseIRB?
                        
                        How do I submit an initial submission?
                        
                        How do I send the submission back to the student?
                        
                        How do I submit an amendment (modification)to my study?
                        
                        Where are my stamped approval documents?
                        
                        I need to submit a Renewal or an Incident application soon.  Can I do it in Cayuse
                                 IRB?  
                        
                        What is the protocol for student-led studies?
                        
                        Why am I having trouble accessing Cayuse IRB during weekends?
                        
                        How can I delete a study in Cayuse IRB?
                        
                        Why do I keep getting expiration reminders after completing a Renewal submission?
                        
                        How do I know what review category my research study follows?
                        
                        Is the terminology used in the old paper system the same in Cayuse IRB?
                        
                        My project involves children (minors under age 18). What do I need to know?
                        
                        What is the protocol review time?
                        
                        My research will be conducted outside the continental United States. Are there any
                                 special considerations?
                        
                        Parts of Cayuse IRB do not appear to be working correctly. What am I doing wrong?
                        
                        What about Mac users? Can we get into Cayuse IRB using Safari?
                        
                        Can we still use the templates from the website for consent forms, assent forms, etc.
                        
                        How are we notified when something needs to be done or the study proceeds through
                                 the system?
                        
                        Can multiple research team members be added? If so, what is the process?
                        
                        How does Cayuse IRB work when I, as the PI, collaborate with a researcher from another
                                 institute?
                        
                        In Cayuse IRB can we copy & paste?
                        
                        Is the Cayuse IRB form editable?
                        
                        How do I submit changes to my approved Submission (protocol)?
                        
                        What happens when no action is taken by the PI?
                        
                        How does a person "unlock" a submission – referring to the editing process by co-investigators
                                 who cannot certify?
                        
                        How do I find out the status of the protocol review?
                        
                        How do I delete a submission (modification, renewal, closure) on an approved study?
                        
                        What are Incident Reports?
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     What do I use Cayuse IRB for? Cayuse IRB is now the mandatory form of submission for all new studies. You can also
                        use Cayuse IRB to report incidences and make modifications to studies that were previously
                        submitted through Cayuse IRB. Determination Forms can now be completed through Cayuse
                        IRB in the initial submission as well.
                     
                     
                     How do I log in? To access CayuseIRB go to memphis.cayuse424.com , enter your UofM credentials, and select Cayuse IRB (Human Studies Compliance).
                     
                     
                     What is my username and password? Cayuse IRB is accessible through single-sign-on with your UofM UUID and password.
                     
                     
                     Who is able to access and edit my study and submissions? Detailed roles in Cayuse IRB:
                     
                     
                        
                        Principal Investigator (PI) Can submit Can view study/submission details Can edit when it is reopened, renew, make modifications, report incident, & close Can add Co-PIs, Primary Contact, Faculty Advisor (Students), & Co-Investigators MUST certify
                        
                        Co-Principal Investigator (Co-PI) & Faculty Advisors (FA) Can submit (on behalf of the PI) Can view study/submission details (on behalf of the PI) Can edit when it is reopened, renew, make modifications, report incident, & close
                           on behalf of the PI (PI still must certify as well) Can add PI, Co-PIs, Primary Contact, Faculty Advisor (Students), & Co-Investigators Faculty Advisors must certify student-led studies & submissions
                           
                           MUST certify
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Primary Contact Can submit on behalf of the Principal Investigator (PI) Can view study/submission details Can edit when it is reopened, renew, make modifications, report incident, & close
                           on behalf of the PI (PI & Co-PI must certify) Can add the PI, Co-PIs, Primary Contact, Faculty Advisor (Students), & Co-Investigators Cannot certify
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        UofM Co-Investigator Can submit on behalf of the Principal Investigator (PI) Can View study/submission details Can edit when it is reopened, renew, make modifications, report incident, & close
                           on behalf of the PI (PI & Co-PI must certify) Cannot certify
                        
                        Non UofM Co-Investigator No view No edit
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Whom do I contact for help? Please feel free to email CayuseSupport@memphis .edu if you have any questions.
                     
                     
                     I can't log into Cayuse IRB. What's wrong? Your name may not be in the Cayuse IRB system.  Please register for Cayuse access.
                        The process may take up to 48 hours depending on work days and weekends. Please follow-up
                        on your request if you do not have access after 48 hours.
                     
                     
                     I submitted a renewal/continuing review to irb@memphis.edu, why is Cayuse IRB sending
                              messages saying my study is about to expire? This means that your Legacy study has not been updated in Cayuse IRB yet though the
                        IRB has received and updated your study in our old database.  All Legacy studies will
                        be completely updated on September 1, 2016.  Feel free to contact us if you have ANY
                        questions or concerns regarding your Legacy study/submission.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Go to Top
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     What is a Legacy Study? When a study is first imported from a previous IRB system into Cayuse IRB, the study
                        does not have any submissions associated with it. If an investigator wishes to continue
                        working with the study, they (or an IRB Analyst) must first create a Legacy submission
                        for the study. The Legacy submission is used in place of the Initial submission. Once
                        the legacy submission is finalized, you can create additional submissions such as
                        modifications, renewals, etc. and work with the study as you would any other study
                        in Cayuse IRB.
                     
                     
                     Why is CayuseIRB sending me incorrect notifications? You may be receiving error notifications because your study has been updated ONLY
                        in our old database and not in Cayuse, yet.  All Legacy studies will be completely
                        updated on September 1, 2016.  Feel free to contact us if you have ANY questions or
                        concerns regarding your Legacy study/submission.
                     
                     
                     How do I renew, modify, report an incident, and/or close my study if it was approved
                              before CayuseIRB? Until Sept. 1st, we will keep all the current IRB forms at the bottom of the webpage. 
                        Also, the reason for the August 1st  go-live date was due to the final legacy data
                        load so legacy protocols can be accurate in Cayuse.  However, I will be creating a
                        statement, letting researchers know to expect inaccuracies with their Legacy Cayuse
                        Data; and that all legacy protocol updates will be accepted via irb@memphis.edu email
                        until the final load August 30th – 31st .  But we will encourage researchers to create
                        new/initial protocols in CayuseIRB starting Aug. 1st.
                     
                     
                     How do I submit an initial submission? Please see the Quick start guide or manual for instructions on how to begin an initial
                        submission.
                     
                     
                     How do I send the submission back to the student? There is a "RETURN TO INVESTIGATORS" button you can hit to send application back to
                        the student, and reopen it. This can be found on the submission details page.  You
                        or the student could then make changes.  (Unfortunately you can't make comments in
                        the application for the student.)
                     
                     
                     How do I submit an amendment (modification)to my study? After your initial submission has been approved, you will be able to select "Modification"
                        under the "New Submission" button on your study page. See further instructions.
                     
                     
                     Where are my stamped approval documents? Approval documents through Cayuse are not stamped.  IRB@memphis.edu will no longer
                        email approval documents for submissions submitted through Cayuse IRB.  You receive
                        the email from researchsuitesupport@evisions.com and will be able to access your approved
                        documents by viewing your submission in Cayuse IRB. Your approval letter will be sent
                        to you via email.
                     
                     
                     I need to submit a Renewal or an Incident application soon.  Can I do it in Cayuse
                              IRB?  Studies approved in Cayuse IRB will be reminded to submit renewals in Cayuse IRB prior
                        to expiration.  A submission requesting a modification of your study can be accepted
                        in Cayuse if your study was already submitted in the system.
                     
                     
                     What is the protocol for student-led studies? Students who are leading a research study should be identified as the Principal Investigator
                        and Primary Contact on the IRB submissions.  After a student selects their "Student"
                        classification, they will be prompted to enter their Faculty Advisor's information.
                     
                     
                     Why am I having trouble accessing Cayuse IRB during weekends? Evisions schedules maintenance for the Cayuse system on Saturdays or Sundays. If you
                        find you cannot access the system on a weekend, try later in the day or the next day.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Go to Top
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     How can I delete a study in Cayuse IRB? You may only withdraw, close, and archive a study.  There are only certain circumstances
                        under which you can delete a study in Cayuse IRB. Please see our guide on how to delete
                        a study in Cayuse IRB.
                     
                     
                     Why do I keep getting expiration reminders after completing a Renewal submission? The Cayuse system is set to send notices of IRB approval expiration starting 90 days
                        in advance of expiration, and once every two weeks thereafter.  Those reminders continue
                        going out even after a renewal submission has been created. Their behavior is tied
                        directly to the expiration date of the study and so those notifications will continue
                        to go out until the review on the renewal is complete.
                     
                     
                     How do I know what review category my research study follows? Studies are categorized as either Exempt, Expedited or Full Board in your Study's
                        Submission Details.
                     
                     
                     Is the terminology used in the old paper system the same in Cayuse IRB? No. Evisions is a software company that develops over the counter software for a variety
                        of different genres across the nation. The terminology they use is common to the IRB
                        industry in other parts of the country. In order to facilitate understanding and continuity,
                        we will be using the terminology they use for Cayuse IRB.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Cayuse IRB Glossary of Terms
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 New (CayuseIRB) Terminology
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Old Terminology
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Initial Submission
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Initial Review Request
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Study
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Protocol
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Modification
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Amendments
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Renewal
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Continuation/Continuing Review
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Incident
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Adverse Event
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Closure
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Completion
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     My project involves children (minors under age 18). What do I need to know? Children are a protected population in human subjects research. The federal regulations
                        (45 CFR 46.401...Subpart D) provide guidance. Most human subjects research protocols
                        involving children will be submitted for Expedited review. An assent form will be
                        required along with the parental consent form. Research involving schools may require
                        school administrative approval.  Also check FERPA rules. Remember that human subjects
                        research protocols that involve children require two reviews and will possibly require
                        a longer review time frame.
                     
                     
                     What is the protocol review time? The IRB Analyst will pre-screen your protocol within 20 business days of receipt.
                        Your initial submission may be sent back to In-Draft status asking for revisions or
                        it may be assigned directly to the IRB reviewer. Notifications and emails are sent
                        to PIs, Primary Contacts, and other co-investigators at each review stage. Review
                        times will vary over the course of the year depending on reviewer availability. Full
                        Board protocols have a different time line.  Refer to IRB Board Meeting Calendar.
                     
                     
                     My research will be conducted outside the continental United States. Are there any
                              special considerations? Yes. Researchers should access the Office of Human Research Protection (OHRP) website
                        for information on the country where the research will be conducted. Certain locations
                        may have special requirements for conducting research. This information should be
                        included in the Cayuse IRB submission. The UofM Export Control website should also
                        be reviewed.
                     
                     
                     Parts of Cayuse IRB do not appear to be working correctly. What am I doing wrong? The problem may lie in your web browser. Evisions recommends using Google Chrome as
                        the web browser for Cayuse IRB. The software is not completely stable using Internet
                        Explorer or Firefox.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Go to Top
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     What about Mac users? Can we get into Cayuse IRB using Safari? Yes, but Evisions recommends using Chrome as the browser.
                     
                     
                     Can we still use the templates from the website for consent forms, assent forms, etc.? Yes. You can still save them as a file, make the appropriate changes specific to your
                        study and copy & paste the contents to the text fields or attach them as a MS Word
                        or Adobe .pdf document file in the appropriate field.
                     
                     
                     How are we notified when something needs to be done or the study proceeds through
                              the system? Cayuse IRB will automatically generate emails and internal notifications to inform
                        the PI, the primary contact, and each member of the research team listed under Find
                        People at each stage of the review process.
                     
                     
                     Can multiple research team members be added? If so, what is the process? Yes. Multiple co-investigators can be added using the Find People button (if they
                        are in the system). Click on Find People. When the window comes up, type the last
                        name of the person in the search field. The names will populate below. Click the name
                        and that name will post to the Selected Records field at the bottom of the window.
                        Go back to the top and type in the name of the next research team member and repeat
                        the process. When you click on the name in the menu, it moves to the bottom. When
                        all names have been added, click on the Save button at the bottom of the window and
                        the names will post back to the Research Team screen.
                     
                     
                     How does Cayuse IRB work when I, as the PI, collaborate with a researcher from another
                              institute – do they have access and do I type in their name as a member of the research
                              team? Only UofM faculty, staff, and students will have access to Cayuse IRB.  Add the names
                        and organizations of your external co-investigating team.
                     
                     
                     In Cayuse IRB can we copy & paste? Yes. There will be free text fields available for you to cut and paste wording.
                     
                     
                     Is the Cayuse IRB form editable? Yes, but only under certain conditions if the study is the In-Draft stage. Any time
                        the submission has been forwarded to the PI for certification, to the IRB Analyst
                        for pre-screening or assigned to the IRB reviewer, nothing can be edited. Only after
                        the submission has been returned to the PI for changes can anything be edited.
                     
                     
                     How do I submit changes to my approved Submission (protocol)? Changes to an approved protocol are considered modifications (amendments) and must
                        undergo review by the IRB. Modifications to an already approved study may be made
                        through Cayuse IRB, including Legacy protocols. (Legacy protocols are your current
                        active IRB protocols from the old system).
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Locate the IRB study through the Dashboard under your Approved Studies.
                        
                        Once located, click on the IRB number.
                        
                        In Study Details screen, click on New Submission and then Modification.
                        
                        Provide a summary of your proposed changes or additions.
                        
                        Make the changes to the appropriate section(s) and field(s). For example, if you wish
                           to increase your population number, then you will go to the Human Subjects section
                           and make the change.
                        
                        
                        Attach any revised documents that are relevant to your requested changes. Such as,
                           revised surveys, additional recruitment messages, explanations of a different subject
                           population.
                        
                        
                        Save the screen and click on Complete Submission at the bottom of the menu.
                        
                        Then click Confirm.
                        
                     
                     
                     Modifications to approved protocols must be minor with limited changes. If numerous
                        changes are requested or the changes requested are complicated, the IRB may request
                        the researcher submit a new protocol for review.
                     
                     
                     What happens when no action is taken by the PI? Normally if a submission has been sent to the PI for certification, no further editing
                        can occur. In addition, it cannot go forward to the IRB Analyst for pre-screening
                        and/or IRB assignment until it has been certified.
                     
                     
                     How does a person "unlock" a submission – referring to the editing process by co-investigators
                              who cannot certify? Once a submission has been forwarded to the next level, it cannot be "unlocked" or
                        edited. For any changes to take place, the study must be showing up at the In-Draft
                        level. Researchers may notify the IRB Analyst by email asking that the submission
                        be returned back.
                     
                     
                     How do I find out the status of the protocol review? In Cayuse IRB, the status of your study can be found under the Submissions icon on
                        the left side menu. You can also click on the specific submission for more details.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        In-Draft: The submission has not been completed and/or submitted for PI approval.
                        
                        Awaiting Approval: The submission is awaiting PI review and certification.
                        
                        Pre-Review: The submission is with the IRB Analyst office for pre-screening.
                        
                        Under Review: The submission has been sent to the IRB Reviewer.
                        
                     
                     
                     How do I delete a submission (modification, renewal, closure) on an approved study? There is a point at which researchers can delete an initial submission, a modification,
                        a renewal request and a closure request.  The system allows the user to delete any
                        submissions if they have not been sent forward to the next level in the review process.
                        Once an action has been performed at another review level, the submission cannot be
                        deleted.
                     
                     
                     How long will the research study be accessible in Cayuse IRB after it has been closed? Once a study has been closed, it will be accessible to the PI and members of the research
                        team for a period of three (3) years at which time it may be purged from the system
                        per 45 CFR 46.115(b).
                     
                     
                     What are Incident Reports? Incident reports relate to issues of non-compliance, adverse events and unanticipated
                        problems within a study. 45 CFR 46 and institutional policy require researchers to
                        report events associated with the research study that could possibly lead or has led
                        to the harm of human subjects. The incident reports in Cayuse IRB allow researchers
                        to self-report such events through the software application. Persons wishing to remain
                        anonymous can still report any complaints or problems to the IRB Analyst.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Go to Top
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Research Compliance
                        
                           
                              
                              Human Subjects and IRB
                                    Overview
                                    Educational Requirements
                                    Meetings/Members
                                    Exemption
                                    Decision Guide
                                    Adverse Events
                                    FAQ
                                    Glossary
                                    IRB Guidelines and Templates
                                    IRB Policy
                                 
                              
                              Cayuse IRB
                              FAQ-Cayuse
                              Responsible Conduct
                              Conflict of Interest
                              Export Control
                              Whistleblowers
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Forms
                              Forms and other useful information
                           
                           
                              electronic Research Administration (eRA)
                              Cayuse SP/424/IRB
                           
                           
                              Resources
                              Institutional information and resources for the researcher
                           
                           
                              Staff
                              Staff of Research and Sponsored Programs and Grants Accounting
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/12/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/rsp/compliance/faq_cayuse.php
