http://www.memphis.edu/rsp/compliance/export_control.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Division of Research and Sponsored Programs
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Vice President
                        Compliance/IRB
                        Sponsored Programs
                        Research Development
                     
                     
                        
                           Research Compliance
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Human Subjects and IRB
                                       Overview
                                       Educational Requirements
                                       Meetings/Members
                                       Exemption
                                       Decision Guide
                                       Adverse Events
                                       FAQ
                                       Glossary
                                       IRB Guidelines and Templates
                                       IRB Policy
                                    
                                 
                                 Cayuse IRB
                                 FAQ-Cayuse
                                 Responsible Conduct
                                 Conflict of Interest
                                 Export Control
                                 Whistleblowers
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	RSP
                              	
                        
                              	Research Compliance
                              	
                         Research Compliance
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Export Control
                     
                     International Travel Briefing
                     
                     When traveling abroad, taking certain items, providing certain services or meeting
                        with certain people can present export control problems for University of Memphis
                        (UM) faculty, staff, students and postdoctoral scholars ("UM affiliates"). This document
                        provides us with guidance on how to avoid running afoul of the export control laws
                        when travelling internationally. Travel to most countries does not present an export
                        control problem. However, travel to some countries may present a problem. These problems
                        may be easily managed, provided we create and maintain records that show we found
                        the travel to be exempt from existing regulations. In some cases an export control
                        license is required for travel. It is crucial that we obtain the necessary license
                        prior to the trip. Violations of export control laws carry severe civil and criminal
                        penalties.
                     
                     
                     Applicable Regulations
                     
                     When traveling internationally, UM affiliates need to be familiar with export control
                        regulations and policies. Specifically, UM affiliates need to determine whether the
                        following regulations apply to them:
                     
                     
                     US Department of Commerce's Export Administration Regulations (EAR) These regulations govern hardware, materials, equipment, software, technology and
                        technical data that have both civilian and inherent military or defense application.
                        Controlled items are identified on the Commerce Control List (CCL). EAR controls are
                        specific and based on the combination of 1) destination; 2) end use; and 3) item specifications
                        and capabilities.
                     
                     
                     US Department of State's International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) These regulations govern 1) defense articles, including hardware, materials, equipment,
                        software, technology and technical data specifically designed or modified for defense
                        or military application without civil performance or use equivalent; and 2) defense
                        activities, including disclosing ITAR technical data (or data related to a defense
                        article) to foreign nationals, or disclosing technical data (even if not controlled
                        or in the public domain) to a foreign national or related organization affiliated
                        with a military purpose.
                     
                     
                     US Department of Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Controls (OFAC) These regulations restrict transactions with a specified list of embargoed countries
                        and with certain "specifically designated nationals." For the purposes of UM affiliates,
                        restrictions that are most likely to affect UM exports include travel to Cuba, Iran,
                        Syria and Sudan.
                     
                     
                     Evaluating Whether the Regulations Apply to You
                     
                     In evaluating whether any of the regulations apply to your travel, you need to consider:
                     
                     
                        
                        Whether you plan to take any controlled items or data with you; the most common items
                           that present export control issues are laptops, jump drives, hand-held GPS devices,
                           blueprints or schematics, encryption products and prototypes or samples that happen
                           to be portable;
                        
                        
                        Whether you plan to send or deliver any controlled items or data to non-US persons;
                        
                        Whether your laptop or other storage device you are taking out of the country has
                           controlled data or information stored on it;
                        
                        
                        Whether the country to which you are traveling has any OFAC restrictions;
                        
                        Whether you will be doing business (including engaging in money transactions or the
                           exchange of goods or services) with certain people or entities that are considered
                           "specially designated nationals."
                        
                        
                        Whether you will be supplying certain technologies or data at a "closed" conference
                           or meeting (not open to all technically qualified members of the public, and attendees
                           are not permitted to take notes)
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Necessary Actions
                     
                     If you believe any of the regulations might apply to you, you should take the following
                        steps, in consultation and collaboration with the research compliance staff in the
                        Office of the Vice President for Research (VPR):
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Determine whether any license exemptions may apply to your activity. For example,
                           an exemption for "tools of trade" used in research may be available depending on the
                           circumstances. (This exemption requires the items or data remain in your personal
                           control at all times, which may not be feasible.); -- Lawful involvement of foreign nationals in controlled activities while at UM may
                           not automatically extend to laboratory or field research sites outside of the US;
                           hence, foreign national involvement in research being conducted outside the US may
                           require prior agency authorization.;
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Determine whether an export license or authorization from the appropriate government
                           agency is required prior to the intended travel;
                        
                        
                        Obtain an export license, when necessary.; --  The research compliance staff in the Office of the VPR submit all requests for
                           licenses on behalf of UM; --  Be sure to contact the research compliance staff well in advance of your planned
                           travel dates, as obtaining a license may take 30 days or longer.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Helpful Tips-When Traveling Internationally
                     
                     
                        
                        Use your best judgment in communicating with foreign nationals, and be alert to situations
                           that may result in inadvertent inappropriate or illegal disclosure of controlled information
                           or data;
                        
                        
                        Avoid situations that lead to providing advice or assistance outside of fundamental
                           research parameters;
                        
                        
                        Do not discuss controlled or sensitive information (for example, proprietary information
                           that you may happen to have) in public places;
                        
                        
                        Always keep controlled or sensitive items, information or data secure;
                        
                        Maintain a "need-to-know" policy when discussing work -related information with others;
                        
                        Do not leave equipment, documents or data in your hotel safe;
                        
                        Ensure that UofM has a way of getting in touch with you if necessary.
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Research Compliance
                        
                           
                              
                              Human Subjects and IRB
                                    Overview
                                    Educational Requirements
                                    Meetings/Members
                                    Exemption
                                    Decision Guide
                                    Adverse Events
                                    FAQ
                                    Glossary
                                    IRB Guidelines and Templates
                                    IRB Policy
                                 
                              
                              Cayuse IRB
                              FAQ-Cayuse
                              Responsible Conduct
                              Conflict of Interest
                              Export Control
                              Whistleblowers
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Forms
                              Forms and other useful information
                           
                           
                              electronic Research Administration (eRA)
                              Cayuse SP/424/IRB
                           
                           
                              Resources
                              Institutional information and resources for the researcher
                           
                           
                              Staff
                              Staff of Research and Sponsored Programs and Grants Accounting
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/26/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/rsp/compliance/export_control.php
