http://www.memphis.edu/cfia/news_and_events.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Center for Information Assurance
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Cyber Security
                        Scholarships
                        Projects
                        Research
                        Courses
                        People
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Center for Information Assurance
                              	
                        News and Events
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     News and Events
                     
                     Computational Intelligence in Cyber Security
                     
                     Organize a Symposium on Computational Intelligence in Cyber Security (CICS) at IEEE Symposium Series on Computational Intelligence (SSCI), December 6-9, 2016
                        at Athens, Greece
                     
                     
                     Cyber security summit 2016
                     
                     9th Cyber Security Summit will be held on 14 October, 2016 at FIT. Click here for more info
                     
                     ransomware workshop by FBI
                     
                     FBI Sponsored Ransomware Symposium (at FIT on August 22nd) from 1PM to 3PM, register
                        at here
                     
                     NCPC Annual Report
                     
                     Click here to view
                     
                     Gencyber BOOT camp Application form, 2016
                     
                       Registration form for High/Middle school students
                     
                       GenCyber Boot Camp Sessions are held daily from 9am-4:30pm.
                     
                     AnnounceMent:
                     
                     Research Assistant Professor Position (in Cyber Security) Available
                     
                     
                     Invited talk at syracuse university
                     
                     Posted on 2015-30-11
                     
                     Prof. Dasgupta has been invited to give a talk next week on Adaptive Multi-Factor Authentication at the Department of Electrical Engineering and
                           Computer Science and CASE Center, Syracuse University , November 18, 2015.
                     
                     
                     Latest FIT Training & Events
                     
                     Posted on 2015-30-11
                     
                      
                     
                     Cybersecurity Lightning Talks
                     
                     Date: December 3rd, 2015 Time: 3pm - 6pm Place: FedEx Institute of Technology, Fishbowl
                     
                     
                     Please join us for an evening of cybersecurity research project presentations with
                        special guest speaker: Special Agent Tim Marsh of the Memphis FBI Division. RSVP Required: There is no cost to attend, but please RSVP to : Tammy Alexander x1589
                        tlxander@memphis.edu
                     
                     
                     Cybersecurity Certificate Course
                     
                     Date: February 1-5, 2016
                     
                     This foundational program in cybersecurity is designed to cover the fundamentals of
                        cybersecurity and cybersecurity vulnerabilities (IT background required). Click for more info and to register
                     
                     CfIA Receives Cyber Security Training Grant from FEMA
                     
                     Posted on 2015-30-11
                     
                     The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded a 2015 Continuing Training
                        Grant of $3 million for cyber security training to the National Cybersecurity Preparedness
                        Consortium (NCPC). The project will be led by the University of Arkansas Criminal
                        Justice Institute; the University of Memphis Center for Information Assurance (CfIA) will collaborate on the project as a core member of the consortium.
                     
                     
                     This Homeland Security National Training Program (HSNTP) will provide FEMA-certified
                        training to first responders, emergency managers, technical specialists, and local
                        government and community leaders, preparing them for all types of cyber emergencies.
                     
                     
                     The University of Memphis is at the forefront of information security research, education,
                        and outreach in the region, according to Dr. Dipankar Dasgupta, founding director
                        of CfIA, which is a National Center for Academic Excellence in Information Assurance.
                        "The center will receive $474,000 from the consortium, and though this grant we will
                        be developing an online training course on mobile device security and privacy issues.
                        The course will make it safer for everyone browsing the Internet," he said.
                     
                     
                     The 36-month program focuses on four areas: cyber security, hazardous materials, countering
                        violent extremism and rural preparedness. Rural preparedness includes school-based
                        incidents, mass fatality planning and response, the development of emergency operation
                        plans, rail car safety, media engagement strategies for first responders, agro-terrorism,
                        food and animal safety, and hazardous materials.
                     
                     
                     STL-CyberCon 2015
                     
                     Posted on 2015-30-11
                     
                     Prof. Dasgupta gave keynote speech at St. Louis at Cyber Security workshop ( STL-CyberCon ), University of Missouri-St. Louis, November 20, 2015.
                     
                     
                     NICE Conference & Expo 2015
                     
                     Posted on 2015-30-11
                     
                     Prof. Dasgupta attended the NIST-NICE conference at San Diego from November 1-4, 2015.
                     
                     
                     CYBER SECURITY SUMMIT 2015 Summary
                     
                     Posted on 2015-17-11
                     
                     The University of Memphis, FedEx Institute of Technology, hosted the Mid-South Cyber
                        Security Conference on Friday, October 16, 2015. Details about the event are in the
                        following link:
                     
                     
                     Cyber Security Summit 2015 Event 
                     
                      
                     
                     Student Team Wins 2nd Place at Cyber Defense Competition
                     
                     Posted on 2015-11-11
                     
                     
                     A team of four Computer Science students recently won second place in the prestigious
                        CANSec Cyber Defense Competition , held in Little Rock on Oct. 24. The competition is held annually as a part of the
                        CANSec workshop (formerly KanSec), which has brought together researchers and practitioners
                        in networking and security related fields since Spring 2012.
                     
                     
                     The students competed against Cyber Security teams from several other universities
                        across the U.S. before winning second place in the day-long competition. The goal
                        of the competition was to provide students with a platform to apply theoretical knowledge
                        into practice, and to obtain hands-on cyber security experience. During the competition,
                        the teams were asked to oversee a small corporate network, to manage all critical
                        services, and to defend against external attacks.
                     
                     
                     The U of M winning team included two graduate students (Kul Subedi, Sujit Shrestha)
                        and two undergraduates (Robert Edstrom, Nick Gordon), all of whom are involved with
                        the Center for Information Assurance . "It was a valuable experience, and one I'm very glad to have been a part of," said
                        Robert Edstrom. "I think we all learned a great deal from working as a team."
                     
                     
                     The team also participated and performed well in the CyberSEED national cyber security competition, held at UConn on Oct. 29-30.
                     
                     
                     Cyber Security Summit
                     
                     The University of Memphis Center for Information Assurance would like to cordially
                        invite you to The Cyber Security Summit. This year's summit is being held on October
                        16, 2015 at The University of Memphis FedEx Institute of Technology. Topics such as
                        health information security, cloud security, cyber crime, and many more will be discussed
                        by keynote speakers. Information Assurance and Cyber Security experts will be onsite
                        for presentations and networking to address current issues of cyber security. To learn
                        more about the annual Mid-South Cyber Security Summit, click the following link:
                     
                     
                     http://cybersummit.memphis.edu
                     
                     UofM Redesignated as National Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Research
                     
                     Contact: Gabrielle Maxey 901.678.2843 gmaxey@memphis.edu
                     
                     March 23, 2015 - The University of Memphis has been re-designated as a National Center
                        of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Research (CAE-R) through academic year 2021
                        by the National Security Agency and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
                     
                     
                     “This is a great honor for the University, and for the University’s Center for Information
                        Assurance (CfIA) as well,” said Dr. Dipankar Dasgupta, professor of computer science
                        and founding director of the CfIA.
                     
                     
                     At the forefront of research, education, and outreach on Information Assurance (IA)
                        in the region, the Center for Information Assurance was established in 2004 through
                        the collaboration of the Computer Science, Management Information Systems, Electrical
                        Engineering and Criminology and Criminal Justice departments, as well as partnerships
                        with community colleges focusing on cyber security and IA-related topics.
                     
                     
                     The Center is active in the advancement of IA education on campus and throughout the
                        region, focusing on issues that threaten our nation’s critical infrastructure, and
                        working toward providing solutions that enhance both local and national cyber security
                        efforts.
                     
                     
                     The UofM will accept the certification at the 19th Annual Colloquium for Information
                        Systems Security Education (CISSE) in Las Vegas in June.
                     
                     
                     UofM Redesignated as Center of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance
                     
                     Contact: Gabrielle Maxey
                     
                     901.678.2843
                     
                     gmaxey@memphis.edu
                     
                     August 8, 2014 - In the battle to combat hackers, viruses and other security issues,
                        the University of Memphis is at the center of the national effort to secure cyberspace.
                        The University has been re-designated by the National Security Agency and the U.S.
                        Department of Homeland Security as a National Center of Academic Excellence in Information
                        Assurance Education. The designation covers academic years 2014-2021.
                     
                     
                     The certification was presented to the UofM’s Center for Information Assurance (CfIA)
                        recently at the Colloquium for Information Systems Security Education in San Diego.
                     
                     
                     Directed by Dr. Dipankar Dasgupta, professor of computer science, and Dr. Judith Simon,
                        professor of management information systems, the Center develops educational tools,
                        programs and training for the Mid-South. By offering information assurance courses
                        and hosting workshops for the students and professionals, including police and other
                        law enforcement officials, the CfIA is working to create a future of secure online
                        commerce and a safe computing environment.
                     
                     
                     The Center also contributes to the community by training local educators at all levels
                        to serve their students better. This summer Dasgupta received a National Science Foundation
                        grant for a project to develop innovative “puzzles” that use specialized software
                        to help community college students learn the concepts of and approaches to cybersecurity.
                     
                     
                     More information is available online at http://cfia.memphis.edu .
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              News & Events
                              
                           
                           
                              Community Outreach
                              
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 8/19/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/cfia/news_and_events.php
