http://www.memphis.edu/meeman/geography/index.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Edward J. Meeman Biological Station (MBS)
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Geography
                        Research
                        Education
                        Databases
                        Mission 
                        Events
                        Species
                     
                     
                        
                           Geography Information
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Geography
                                 Physical Setting
                                 Physiography
                                 West TN Rivers
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Meeman
                              	
                        
                           	Geography
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Geography
                     
                     Climate
                     
                     The yearly average temperature is 16º C. July is the warmest month averaging 26.6º
                        C, and January is the coldest month averaging 4º C. Average yearly precipitation is
                        132 cm with a majority of precipitation occurring during the winter and spring months.
                        Average growing season is 230 days.
                     
                     
                     Physical Setting
                     
                     Western Tennessee is part of the Mississippi Embayment, an extension of unconsolidated
                        coastal plain materials. The surface geology can be sectioned from east to west as
                        Quaternary loess on the bluffs and riparian areas, Tertiary unconsolidated sand, silt,
                        clay and gravel, and Cretaceous unconsolidated sand, silt, clay and gravel (to the
                        far east).
                     
                     
                     Vegetation Community Types, Physiognomic classification
                     
                     Nearly all of the upland natural vegetation in western Tennessee is part of the Lowland
                        or Submontane Cold-Deciduous Forest (sensu the National Vegetation Classification
                        System, Weakley et al. 1988). Lowlands include Temporarily Flooded, Seasonally Flooded,
                        Semipermanently Flooded, and Saturated Cold-Deciduous Forest. There are also plantings
                        of Pinus taeda and Pinus echinata, and various crops such as cotton and soybeans.
                        In addition, there occur several fallow fields dominated by herbaceous flora, made
                        up of various perennial forbs and grasses. Finally, several exotic species, mainly
                        Pueraria montana and Microstegium vimineum, are increasing their extent.
                     
                     
                     Historical vegetation
                     
                     Delcourt et al. (1993) describe the vegetation and anthropogenic cultures of the southeastern
                        United States. During the full glaciation, ca. 18,000 years before present (BP), Picea
                        and Abies species dominated the Mississippi alluvial valley, while the adjacent uplands
                        were dominated by a mixed forest reminiscent of the contemporary northern forests.
                        The Hysithermal (ca. 3,500 – 8,000 years BP) during the Holocene was a warm, dry period,
                        rendering open park-like upland oak forests and restricting the mesophytic flora to
                        riparian zones. Early explorers described large, widely spaced trees with an abundance
                        of cane (Arundinaria gigantea) in the understory in the loess hills. Remnants of the
                        once vast ?canebrakes? still exist in small patches. A variety of oak forests and
                        woodlands dominated the interior uplands. Riparian zones were dominated by swamp forest
                        (Taxidium distichum and Nyssa aquatica) and bottomland hardwoods. The onset of European
                        settlement led to the demise of many forests for agriculture and various products
                        such as railroad ties. In addition, the use of fire practiced by Native Americans
                        was suppressed leading to the closing in of forest canopies.
                     
                     
                     Lowland or submontane cold-deciduous forest
                     
                     Braun (1950) classified western Tennessee uplands (the Tennessee Plateau) as Western
                        Mesophytic, a cross between the Mesophytic vegetation to the east and the drier oak
                        forests to the west. Küchler classified the uplands as oak-hickory. The dominance
                        of oak, especially, is common on the uplands, with Quercus alba being the most common
                        and ubiquitous (Bryant et al. 1993). Many of these upland forests are currently succeeding
                        due to two phemomena: 1) forest canopies have closed since European settlement and
                        this has led to a regeneration of only shade-tolerant species, e.g., Acer saccharum
                        and Fagus grandifolia, and 2) forests recovering from disturbance in the late 1800s
                        are losing species of the black oak group as they reach their maximum age. The Loess
                        Bluffs are particularly interesting because of the variety of flora with a mix of
                        northern species such as Tilia americana and Magnolia spp. The loess hills and adjacent
                        lowlands have been suggested as an importnat migratory route and refugia during Pleistocene
                        glaciation (Delcourt and Delcourt 1975).
                     
                     
                     Flooded cold-deciduous forest
                     
                     The lowlands and area adjacent to the Mississippi River is part of the Southern Floodplain
                        Forest (Küchler 1964). These forests include bottomland hardwood forests and deepwater
                        alluvial swamps that are part of the riparian zone rivers and streams (Sharitz & Mitsch
                        1993). The bottomland forests of the eastern United States, generally restricted to
                        the Coastal Plain province, are both economically and ecologically important. The
                        bottomland hardwood forests consist primarily of flood plains adjacent to rivers and
                        streams, but also include poorly drained areas. There are a large number of species
                        found in this system. The major site types are the first bottoms, which are periodically
                        flooded, and the second bottoms, which no longer flood periodically. Within the bottoms, due to the past meandering of the main channel and its tributaries,
                        occur secondary site types due to micro and meso-topography: ridges, flats, sloughs,
                        and swamps. A typical profile of a southeastern bottomland ecosystem shows the importance
                        of microtopographic variation, resulting in dramatic changes in vegetation with sub-meter
                        changes in elevation. The importance of the topography is directly related to the
                        mean depth of the water table, and thus the growing conditions for various tree species
                        (Robertson et al. 1978). The wetlands have long acted like a buffer, mitigating the
                        effects of upland activities (e.g., fire and cutting) on adjacent river and stream
                        systems by catching nutrients and eroding sediments (Sharitz and Mitsch 1993). However,
                        many of these forests have been converted to farmland.
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Geography Information
                        
                           
                              
                              Geography
                              Physical Setting
                              Physiography
                              West TN Rivers
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Schedule the Facilities
                              Departments at the UofM, local universities, colleges and schools, community groups
                                 and other interested parties are invited to request use of MBS facilities.
                              
                           
                           
                              Directions to MBS
                              Google maps and location information
                           
                           
                              Department of Biological Sciences
                              Meeman Biological Station is a facility of the Department of Biological Sciences
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/18/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/meeman/geography/index.php
