http://www.memphis.edu/oir/about/faq.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Office of Institutional Research
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Student Reports
                        Academic Unit Reports
                        Faculty/Staff Reports
                        Interactive Tools
                     
                     
                        
                           About 
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Helpdesk Request
                                 Staff
                                 FAQ and Glossary
                                 Peer Institutions
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	OIR
                              	
                        
                              	About
                              	
                        FAQ and Glossary
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Glossary and FAQ
                     
                     A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
                     
                       A
                     
                     
                     11/12 month salary contract/teaching period - The contracted teaching period of faculty employed for the entire year, usually
                        for a period of 11 or 12 months.
                     
                     
                     12-month period - A 12-month period defined by an institution for reporting a full year of activity
                        (usually either July 1 through June 30 or September 1 through August 31).
                     
                     
                     25th percentile - The score at which 25 percent of students submitting test scores to an institution
                        scored at or below.
                     
                     
                     75th percentile - The score at which 25 percent of students submitting test scores to an institution
                        scored above.
                     
                     
                     9/10-month salary contract/teaching period - The contracted teaching period of faculty employed for 2 semesters, 3 quarters,
                        2 trimesters, 2 4-month sessions, or the equivalent.
                     
                     
                     Academic common market - A program that allows students from the 16 Southern Regional Education Board (SREB)
                        member states to pursue degrees that are not offered by their in-state institutions.
                        Students enroll in out-of-state institutions that offer their degree program and pay
                        the in-state tuition rates.
                     
                     
                     Academic year - Begins at the start of the fall term and ends immediately after the summer term.
                     
                     
                     ACT - Previously known as the American College Testing program, it measures educational
                        development and readiness to pursue college-level coursework in English, mathematics,
                        natural science, and social studies. Student performance does not reflect innate ability
                        and is influenced by a student's educational preparedness. The composite score and
                        each test score (English, Mathematics, Reading, Science) ranges from 1 (low) to 36
                        (high). The composite score is the average of the four test scores.
                     
                     
                     Adjunct faculty - Non-tenure track faculty serving in a temporary or auxiliary capacity to teach
                        specific courses on a course-by-course basis. Includes both faculty who are hired
                        to teach an academic degree-credit course and those hired to teach a remedial, developmental,
                        or ESL course. Excludes regular part-time faculty, graduate assistants, full-time
                        professional staff of the institution who may teach individual courses (such as a
                        dean or academic advisor), and appointees who teach non-credit courses exclusively.
                     
                     
                     Admitted student -  Applicant who is offered admission to a degree-granting program at your institution.
                     
                     
                     Alumni - Former students who have graduated from the University of Memphis.
                     
                     
                     American Indian or Alaska Native -  A person having origins in any of the original peoples of North and South America
                        (including Central America) who maintains cultural identification through tribal affiliation
                        or community attachment.
                     
                     
                     Asian  - A person having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast
                        Asia, or the Indian Subcontinent, including, for example, Cambodia, China, India,
                        Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, the Philippine Islands, Thailand, and Vietnam.
                     
                     
                     Audit - To attend a course without receiving academic credit.
                     
                     
                       B
                     
                     
                     Black or African American - A person having origins in any of the black racial groups of Africa.
                     
                     
                       C
                     
                     
                     CIP code - A six-digit code in the form xx.xxxx that identifies instructional program specialties
                        within educational institutions.
                     
                     
                     Classification - The student's level. Students pursuing a degree and/or certificate are classified
                        according to their progress within that program. Students not working on degrees are
                        classified according to the highest level of credit they are seeking (graduate or
                        undergraduate).
                     
                     
                     Class rank - The relative numerical position of a student in his or her graduating class, calculated
                        by the high school on the basis of grade-point average, whether weighted or unweighted.
                     
                     
                     Class section - A class section is an organized course offered for credit, identified by discipline
                        and number, meeting at a stated time or times in a classroom or similar setting, and
                        not a subsection such as a laboratory or discussion session. Undergraduate class sections
                        are defined as any sections in which at least one degree-seeking undergraduate student
                        is enrolled for credit.
                     
                     
                     Class subsections - A class subsection includes any subsection of a course, such as laboratory, recitation,
                        and discussion subsections that are supplementary in nature and are scheduled to meet
                        separately from the lecture portion of the course. Undergraduate subsections are defined
                        as any subsections of courses in which degree-seeking undergraduate students enrolled
                        for credit.
                     
                     
                     Cohort - A specific group of students established for tracking purposes.
                     
                     
                     Common Data Set (CDS) - The Common Data Set (CDS) is a standard format used to collect most of the requested
                        data. The CDS is organized around these topics: (A) general campus, (B) enrollment
                        and persistence, ( C)  first-time, first-year (freshman) admissions, (D) transfer
                        admissions, (E) academic offerings and policies, (F) student life, (G) annual expenses,
                        (H) financial aid, (I) instructional faculty and class size, (J) degrees conferred,
                        and (K) definitions.
                     
                     
                     Commuter - A student who lives off campus in housing that is not owned by, operated by, or
                        affiliated with the college. This category includes students who commute from home
                        and students who have moved to the area to attend college.
                     
                     
                     Completer - A student who receives a degree, diploma, certificate, or other formal award. In
                        order to be considered a completer, the degree/award must actually be conferred.
                     
                     
                     Concentration - A field of specialization within a designated major.
                     
                     
                     Concurrent enrollment - Enrollment at a second college or University in addition to the University of Memphis
                        during the same term.
                     
                     
                     Continuing education student – A student who is participating exclusively in individual continuing education unit
                        activities.
                     
                     
                     Continuing student - A student who was enrolled at The University of Memphis in the previous term (or
                        in the previous spring, if the current term is fall).
                     
                     
                     Continuing professional education - Programs and courses designed specifically for individuals who have completed a
                        degree in a professional field (such as law, medicine, dentistry, education, or social
                        work) to obtain additional training in their particular field of study.
                     
                     
                     Credit - Recognition of attendance or performance in an instructional activity (course or
                        program) that can be applied by a recipient toward the requirements for a degree,
                        diploma, certificate, or other formal award.
                     
                     
                     Credit course - A course that, if successfully completed, can be applied toward the number of courses
                        required for achieving a degree, diploma, cerfiticate, or other formal award.
                     
                     
                     Credit hour - A unit of measure representing an hour (50 minutes) of instruction over a 15-week
                        period in a semester or trimester system or a 10-week period in a quarter system.
                        It is applied toward the total number of hours needed for completing the requirements
                        of a degree, diploma, certificate, or other formal award. Only traditional credit
                        hours are counted (i.e. audits, etc. are excluded).
                     
                     
                       D
                     
                     
                     Deficient - Students who have not received credit for all of the high school courses specified
                        by the Tennessee Board of Regents (TBR) for admission to the University of Memphis.
                        Students with a deficiency are admitted to the University on a conditional basis and
                        must take the course as a part of their academic curriculum.
                     
                     
                     Degree - An award conferred by a college, university, or other postsecondary education institution
                        as official recognition for the successful completion of a program of studies.
                     
                     
                     Degree year - Begins at the beginning of the summer term and ends immediately after the spring
                        term.
                     
                     
                     Degree-seeking students - Students enrolled in courses for credit who are recognized by the institution as
                        seeking a degree or formal award. At the undergraduate level, this is intended to
                        include students enrolled in vocational or occupational programs.
                     
                     
                     Developmental courses - Courses required of first-time freshmen students whose ACT subscores are less than
                        19.These course are required in order to develop competencies necessary for success
                        in college level courses.
                     
                     
                     Diploma - A formal document certifying the successful completion of a prescribed program
                        of studies
                     
                     
                     Distance learning - An option for earning course credit at off-campus locations via cable television,
                        internet, satellite classes, videotapes, correspondence courses, or other means.
                     
                     
                     Doctoral candidate early stage – A student who has been formally admitted to graduate study and whose major academic
                        endeavor consists of formal course work directed toward fulfilling requirements for
                        a doctoral degree.
                     
                     
                     Doctoral candidate late stage – A student who has been advanced to candidacy for a doctoral degree, or one whose
                        principal academic endeavor consists of independent study, research , or work toward
                        fulfilling requirements for a doctoral degree.
                     
                     
                     Doctoral degree - The highest award a student can earn for graduate study. The doctoral degree classification
                        includes such degrees as Doctor of Education, Doctor of Juridicial Science, and the
                        Doctor of Philosophy degree in any field such as education, engineering, and business.
                     
                     
                     Double major - Program in which students may complete two undergraduate programs of study simultaneously.
                     
                     
                     Dual credit - A program through which high school students are enrolled in Advanced Placement
                        (AP) courses, taught at their high school, that fulfill high school graduation requirements
                        and may earn the student college credits .
                     
                     
                     Dual enrollment - A program through which high school students may enroll in college courses while
                        still enrolled in high school. Students are not required to apply for admission to
                        the college in order to participate.
                     
                     
                       E
                     
                     
                     Educational offerings - Educational programs offered by postsecondary institutions that are occupational,
                        academic, or continuing professional that qualify as postsecondary education programs
                        OR recreational or avocational, adult basic, remedial instruction, high school equivalency,
                        or high school programs that are not deemed postsecondary.
                     
                     
                     Entering students (undergraduate) - Students at the undergraduate level, both full-time and part-time, coming into
                        the institution for the first time in the fall term (or the prior summer term who
                        returned again in the fall). This includes all first-time undergraduate students,
                        students transferring into the institution at the undergraduate level for the first
                        time, and non-degree/certificate seeking undergraduates entering in the fall.
                     
                     
                     Ethnicity – Race classification as mandated by IPEDS. Non-US-citizens are classified as "Foreign"
                        regardless of their ethnic group.
                     
                     
                       F
                     
                     
                     Faculty – Employees whose primary job is to teach courses.
                     
                     
                     Faculty rank – A ranking system among faculty in which titles include professor, associate professor,
                        assistant professor, etc.
                     
                     
                     Fall cohort - The group of students entering in the fall term established for tracking purposes.
                        For the Graduation Rates component, this includes all students who enter an institution
                        as full-time, first-time degree or certificate-seeking undergraduate students during
                        the fall term of a given year.
                     
                     
                     Fall term - The part of the academic year that usually begins late August.
                     
                     
                     Fifth-year undergraduate – Students enrolled in programs which normally take five years to complete, e.g.,
                        some engineering programs or medical technology degrees. This does not describe a
                        student who takes five years to complete a four-year degree.
                     
                     
                     Financial aid - Grants, loans, assistantships, scholarships, fellowships, tuition waivers, tuition
                        discounts, veteran's benefits, employer aid (tuition reimbursement) and other monies
                        (other than from relatives/friends) provided to students to meet expenses. This includes
                        Title IV subsidized and unsubsidized loans made directly to students.
                     
                     
                     First professional degree - An award in one of the following fields: Chiropractic (DC, DCM), dentistry (DDS,
                        DMD), medicine (MD), optometry (OD), osteopathic medicine (DO), rabbinical and Talmudic
                        studies (MHL, Rav), Pharmacy (Bpharm, PharmD), podiatry (PodD, DP, DPM), veterinary
                        medicine (DVM), law (LLB, JD), divinity/ministry (BD, MDiv). The University of Memphis
                        offers the JD degree.
                     
                     
                     First time student - A student attending any institution for the first time at the level enrolled. Includes
                        students enrolled in the fall term who attended a postsecondary institution for the
                        first time at the same level in the prior summer term. Also included students who
                        entered with advanced standing (college credit earned before graduation from high
                        school).
                     
                     
                     First time, first-year (freshman) student - A student attending any institution for the first time at the undergraduate level.
                        Includes students enrolled in the fall term who attended college for the first time
                        in the prior summer term. Also includes students who entered with advanced standing
                        (college credits earned before graduation from high school).
                     
                     
                     First year professional student – A student who has been accepted into a program leading to the JD, MD, DDS, PharmD,
                        or DVM degree and is in the first year of his studies toward that degree. The University
                        of Memphis offers the JD degree.
                     
                     
                     First year student - A student who has completed less than the equivalent of 1 full year of undergraduate
                        work; that is, less than 30 semester hours (in a 120-hour degree program) or less
                        than 900 contact hours.
                     
                     
                     Fiscal year – July 1st to June 30th.
                     
                     
                     Freshman - A first-year undergraduate student.
                     
                     
                     FTE of students - The full-time equivalent (FTE) of students is a single value providing a meaningful
                        combination of full time and part time students. Equals the student's attempted hours
                        divided by the number of hours considered to be full-time for a student at that level
                        (15 hours for undergraduate, 12 hours for graduate).
                     
                     
                     FTE staff - The full-time-equivalent (FTE) of staff is calculated by summing the total number
                        of full-time staff from the Employees by Assigned Position (EAP) component and adding
                        one-third of the total number of part-time staff.
                     
                     
                     Full-time instructional faculty - Faculty employed on a full-time basis for instruction (including those with released
                        time for research).
                     
                     
                     Full-time student (undergraduate) - A student enrolled for 12 or more semester credits, 12 or more quarter credits,
                        or 24 or more contact hours a week each term.
                     
                     
                     Full-time student (graduate) – A student enrolled for 9 or more semester credits.
                     
                     
                       G
                     
                     
                     GED (General Educational Development) - This term normally refers to the tests of General Educational Development (GED),
                        which provide an opportunity to earn a high school credential. The GED program, sponsored
                        by the American Council on Education, enables individuals to demonstrate that they
                        have acquired a level of learning comparable to that of high school graduates.
                     
                     
                     Geographic Origin – The location of the student's permanent address. Categories are Shelby County,
                        the rest of western Tennessee, the rest of Tennessee, Arkansas, Mississippi, the rest
                        of the USA, and other countries (each category excludes all previous categories).
                        The category "Western Tennessee" includes the following counties: Benton, Carroll,
                        Chester, Crockett, Decatur, Dyer, Fayette, Gibson, Hardiman, Hardin, Haywood, Henderson,
                        Henry, Lake, Lauderdale, Madison, McNairy, Obion, Tipton, & Weakley.
                     
                     
                     Governing board - An entity that ensures on behalf of the public the performance of an institution
                        or a group of institutions. Responsibilities of the board may include appointing,
                        supporting, and monitoring the president of the institution; reviewing educational
                        and public service programs; insisting on strategic planning; and, ensuring good management
                        and adequate resources.
                     
                     
                     Grade-point average (academic high school GPA ) - The sum of grade points a student has earned in secondary school divided by the
                        number of courses taken. The most common system of assigning numbers to grades counts
                        four points for an A, three points for a B, two points for a C, one point for a D,
                        and no points for an E or F. Unweighted GPA's assign the same weight to each course.
                        Weighting gives students additional points for their grades in advanced or honors
                        courses.
                     
                     
                     Graduate assistants - Graduate-level students employed on a part-time basis for the primary purpose of
                        assisting in classroom or laboratory instruction or in the conduct of research. Graduate
                        students having titles such as graduate assistant, teaching assistant, teaching associate,
                        teaching fellow, or research assistant typically hold these positions.
                     
                     
                     Graduate special – A student who is (1) non-degree seeking, holding a bachelor's or higher degree,
                        taking courses for graduate credit only; or (2) non-degree seeking, holding a bachelor's
                        or higher degree, taking courses for both graduate and undergraduate credit; or (3)
                        holding a bachelor's degree, and seeking a Graduate Certificate of Credit.
                     
                     
                     Graduate student - A student who holds a bachelor's or first professional degree, or equivalent, and
                        is taking courses at the post-baccalaureate level.
                     
                     
                     Graduation rate - The rate required for disclosure and/or reporting purposes under Student Right-to-Know.
                        This rate is calculated as the total number of completers within 150% of normal time
                        divided by the revised cohort minus any allowable exclusions.
                     
                     
                       H
                     
                     
                     High school / college concurrent – High school student taking college courses in advance of high school graduation.
                     
                     
                     High school diploma or recognized equivalent - A document certifying the successful completion of a prescribed secondary school
                        program of studies, or the attainment of satisfactory scores on the GED or another
                        state specified examination.
                     
                     
                     Hispanic or Latino - A person of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto Rican, South or Central American, or other Spanish
                        culture or origin, regardless of race.
                     
                     
                       I
                     
                     
                     In-state student - A student who is a legal resident of the state in which he/she attends school.
                     
                     
                     In-state tuition - The tuition charged by institutions to those students who meet the state's or institution's
                        residency requirements.
                     
                     
                     Instructional activity - The provision of coursework to students.
                     
                     
                     Instructional Faculty - Members of the instructional-research staff whose major regular assignment is instruction,
                        including those with released time for research.
                     
                     
                     Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System (IPEDS) - Conducted by the NCES, this began in 1986 and involves annual institution-level
                        data collections. All postsecondary institutions that have a Program Participation
                        Agreement with the Office of Postsecondary Education (OPE), U.S. Department of Education
                        (throughout IPEDS referred to as "Title IV") are required to report data using a web-based
                        data collection system. IPEDS currently consists of the following components: Institutional
                        Characteristics (IC); 12-month Enrollment (E12);Completions (C); Human Resources (HR)
                        composed of Employees by Assigned Position (EAP), Fall Staff (S),and Salaries (SA);
                        Fall Enrollment (EF); Graduation Rates (GRS); Finance (F); and Student Financial Aid
                        (SFA).
                     
                     
                       J
                     
                     
                      
                     
                       K
                     
                     
                      
                     
                       L
                     
                     
                      
                     
                       M
                     
                     
                     Major – A student's main field of specialization. The university department offering the
                        major defines specific required courses along with a certain number of electives required
                        for that major.
                     
                     
                     Master's degree - An award that requires the successful completion of a program of study of at least
                        the full-time equivalent of one but not more than two academic years of work beyond
                        the bachelor's degree.
                     
                     
                     Master's candidate – A student who has been formally admitted to graduate school for the purpose of
                        pursuing a Master's degree.
                     
                     
                     Matriculation - Registration and enrollment at the University of Memphis.
                     
                     
                     Minor – A student's secondary field of specialization, subordinate to a student's major.
                     
                     
                     Minority faculty - Faculty who designate themselves as black, non-Hispanic; American Indian or Alaskan
                        native; Asian or Pacific Islander; or Hispanic.
                     
                     
                     A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Return to top
                     
                      
                     
                       N
                     
                     
                     National Center for Education Statistics (NCES) - In the Institute of Education Sciences, this is the statistical agency of the U.S.
                        Department of Education and the primary federal provider of education statistics on
                        the condition of American education.
                     
                     
                     Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander - A person having origins in any of the original peoples of Hawaii, Guam, Samoa,
                        or other Pacific Islands.
                     
                     
                     Noncredit course - A course or activity having no credit applicable toward a degree, diploma, certificate,
                        or other formal award.
                     
                     
                     Non-degree-seeking student - A student enrolled in courses for credit who is not recognized by the institution
                        as seeking a degree or formal award.
                     
                     
                     Non-professional staff - Employees of an institution whose primary function or occupational activity is
                        classified as one of the following: technical and paraprofessional; clerical and secretarial;
                        skilled crafts; or service/maintenance.
                     
                     
                     Nonresident alien - A person who is not a citizen or national of the United States and who is in this
                        country on a visa or temporary basis and does not have the right to remain indefinitely.
                     
                     
                       O
                     
                     
                     Off-campus centers (extension centers) - Sites outside the confines of the parent institution where courses are offered
                        that are part of an organized program at the parent institution. The sites are not
                        considered to be temporary but may be rented or made available to the institution
                        at no cost by another institution or an organization, agency, or firm.
                     
                     
                     Off-campus housing - Any housing facility that is occupied by students but is not owned or controlled
                        by the educational institution.
                     
                     
                     Off-campus facility - A teaching facility located some distance away from the educational institution
                        which operates it.
                     
                     
                     On-campus housing - Any residence halls owned or controlled by an institution within the same reasonably
                        contiguous geographic area and used by the institution in direct support of or in
                        a manner related to, the institution's educational purposes.
                     
                     
                     Out-of-state student - A student who is not a legal resident of the state in which he/she attends school.
                     
                     
                     Out-of-state tuition -The tuition charged by institutions to those students who do not meet the institution's
                        or state's residency requirements.
                     
                     
                       P
                     
                     
                     Part-time instructional faculty - Adjuncts and other instructors being paid solely for part-time classroom instruction.
                        Also includes full-time faculty teaching less than two semesters, three quarters,
                        two trimesters, or two four-month sessions. Employees who are not considered full-time
                        instruction faculty but who teach one or more non-clinical credit course may be counted
                        as part-time faculty.
                     
                     
                     Part-time student (undergraduate) - A student enrolled for fewer than 12 credits per semester or quarter, or fewer
                        than 24 contact hours a week each term.
                     
                     
                     Persistence - A student's continuation behavior leading to graduation. Persistence refers to
                        combined retention and graduation.
                     
                     
                     Post-baccalaureate certificate - An award that requires completion of an organized program of study requiring 18
                        credit hours beyond the bachelor's; designed for persons who have completed a baccalaureate
                        degree but do not meet requirements of academic degrees carrying the title of master.
                     
                     
                     Post-baccalaureate student - A student with a bachelor's degree who is enrolled in graduate-level or first-professional
                        courses.
                     
                     
                     Post-doctoral student – A student who holds a doctoral degree and who is pursuing a program of study or
                        training for which a doctoral degree is requisite.
                     
                     
                     Post-master's certificate - An award that requires completion of an organized program of study of 24 credit
                        hours beyond the master's degree but does not meet the requirements of academic degrees
                        at the doctoral level.
                     
                     
                     Primarily instruction - A primary function or occupational activity category used to classify persons whose
                        specific assignments customarily are made for the purpose of conducting instruction
                        or teaching and who hold academic titles of professor, associate professor, assistant
                        professor, instructor, lecturer or the equivalent. Includes deans, directors, or the
                        equivalent, as well as associate deans, assistant deans, and executive officers of
                        academic departments (chairpersons, heads, or equivalent) if their principal activity
                        is instruction.
                     
                     
                     Primarily public service - A primary function or occupational activity category used to classify persons whose
                        specific assignments customarily are made for the purpose of carrying out public service
                        activities such as agricultural extension services, clinical services, or continuing
                        education and who may hold academic titles of professor, associate professor, assistant
                        professor. Includes deans, directors, or the equivalent, as well as associate deans,
                        assistant deans, and executive officers of academic departments (chairpersons, heads,
                        or equivalent) if their principal activity is public service.
                     
                     
                     Primarily research - A primary function or occupational activity category used to classify persons whose
                        specific assignments customarily are made for the purpose of conducting research and
                        who hold academic titles of professor, associate professor, assistant professor, or
                        titles such as research associate or postdoctoral fellow. Includes deans, directors,
                        or the equivalent, as well as associate deans, assistant deans, and executive officers
                        of academic departments (chairpersons, heads, or equivalent) if their principal activity
                        is research.
                     
                     
                     Professional staff - Employees of an institution whose primary function or occupational activity is
                        classified as one of the following: faculty; executive,administrative,managerial or
                        other professional.
                     
                     
                     Program - A combination of courses and related activities organized for the attainment of
                        broad educational objectives as described by the institution.
                     
                     
                     Public institution - An educational institution whose programs and activities are operated by publicly
                        elected or appointed school officials and which is supported primarily by public funds.
                     
                     
                       Q
                     
                     
                      
                     
                       R
                     
                     
                     Race/ethnicity (new definition) - Categories developed in 1997 by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) that
                        are used to describe groups to which individuals belong, identify with, or belong
                        in the eyes of the community. The categories do not denote scientific definitions
                        of anthropological origins. The designations are used to categorize U.S. citizens,
                        resident aliens, and other eligible non-citizens. Individuals are asked to first designate
                        ethnicity as: Hispanic or Latino, or Not Hispanic or Latino. Second, individuals are
                        asked to indicate all races that apply among the following: American Indian or Alaska
                        Native, Asian, Black or African American, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander,
                        or White.
                     
                     
                     Race/ethnicity unknown - The category used to report students or employees whose race and ethnicity are
                        not known.
                     
                     
                     Readmitted student - A student who has attended the University of Memphis in the past and is reapplying
                        for admission.
                     
                     
                     Regents online degree program (RODP) – Offers online undergraduate and graduate courses within degree programs in which
                        interaction is delivered electronically rather than face-to-face.
                     
                     
                     Retention rate - A measure of the rate at which students persist in their educational program at
                        an institution, expressed as a percentage. For four-year institutions , this is the
                        percentage of first-time full-time bachelors (or equivalent) degree-seeking undergraduates
                        from the previous fall who are again enrolled in the current fall.
                     
                     
                       S
                     
                     
                     Salaries and wages - Amounts paid as compensation for services to all employees—faculty, staff, part
                        time, full time, regular employees, and student employees. This includes regular or
                        periodic payment to a person for the regular or periodic performance of work or a
                        service and payment to a person for more sporadic performance of work or a service
                        (overtime, extra compensation, summer compensation, bonuses, sick or annual leave,
                        etc.).
                     
                     
                     SAT - Previously known as the Scholastic Aptitude Test, this is an examination administered
                        by the Educational Testing Service (ETS) and used to predict the facility with which
                        an individual will progress in learning college-level academic subjects.
                     
                     
                     Scholarships - Grants-in-aid, trainee stipends, tuition and fee waivers, prizes or other monetary
                        awards given to undergraduate students.
                     
                     
                     Scholarships and fellowships - Outright grants-in-aid, trainee stipends, tuition and fee waivers, and prizes awarded
                        to students by the institution, including Pell grants. Awards to undergraduate students
                        are most commonly referred to as "scholarships" and those to graduate students as
                        "fellowships." These awards do not require the performance of services while a student
                        (such as teaching) or subsequently as a result of the scholarship or fellowship. The
                        term does not include loans to students (subject to repayment), College Work-Study
                        Program (CWS), or awards granted because of faculty or staff status. Also not included
                        are awards to students where the selection of the student recipient is not made by
                        the institution.
                     
                     
                     Second year professional student – A student who has been accepted into a program leading to the JD, MD, DDS, PharmD,
                        or DVM degree and is in the second year of his studies toward that degree. The University
                        of Memphis offers the JD degree.
                     
                     
                     Specialist in Education candidate – A student who has been formally admitted to a graduate school for the purpose of
                        pursuing Specialist in Education degree.
                     
                     
                     Stop out - A student who left the institution and returned at a later date.
                     
                     
                     Student Right-to-Know Act - (IPEDS) Also known as the "Student Right-to-Know and Campus Security Act" (P.L.
                        101-542), which was passed by Congress November 9, 1990. Title I, Section 103, requires
                        institutions eligible for Title IV funding to disclose completion or graduation rates
                        of certificate- or degree-seeking, full-time students entering an institution to all
                        students and prospective students. Further, Section 104 requires each institution
                        that participates in any Title IV program and is attended by students receiving athletically-related
                        student aid to annually submit a report to the Secretary. This report is to contain,
                        among other things, graduation/completion rates of all students as well as students
                        receiving athletically-related student aid by race/ethnicity and gender and by sport,
                        and the average completion or graduation rate for the four most recent years. These
                        data are also required to be disclosed to parents, coaches, and potential student
                        athletes when the institution offers athletically-related student aid.
                     
                     
                     Student-to-faculty ratio - The ratio of FTE students to FTE instructional staff, i.e., students divided by
                        staff. Each FTE value is equal to the number of full-time students/staff plus 1/3
                        the number of part-time students/staff.
                     
                     
                       T
                     
                     
                     Tenure - Status of a personnel position with respect to permanence of the position.
                     
                     
                     Tenure track - Personnel positions that lead to consideration for tenure.
                     
                     
                     Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) - The standardized test designed to determine an applicant's ability to benefit from
                        instruction in English.
                     
                     
                     Third year professional student – A student who has been accepted into a program leading to the JD, MD, DDS, PharmD,
                        or DVM degree and is in the third year or his studies toward that degree. The University
                        of Memphis offers the JD degree.
                     
                     
                     Transfer applicant - An individual who has fulfilled the institution's requirements to be considered
                        for admission (including payment or waiving of the application fee, if any) and who
                        has previously attended another college or university and earned college-level credit.
                     
                     
                     Transfer student - A student entering the institution for the first time but known to have previously
                        attended a postsecondary institution at the same level (e.g., undergraduate). The
                        student may transfer with or without credit.
                     
                     
                     Transient student - A student who is regularly enrolled and in good standing at another institution
                        and is taking a course at the University of Memphis for which credit will be transferred
                        to his/her regular institution.
                     
                     
                     Tuition and fees (published charges) - The amount of tuition and required fees covering a full academic year most frequently
                        charged to students. These values represent what a typical student would be charged
                        and may not be the same for all students at an institution.
                     
                     
                       U
                     
                     
                     Undergraduate - A student enrolled in a four- or five-year bachelor's degree program, an associate
                        degree program, or a vocational or technical program below the baccalaureate.
                     
                     
                     Undergraduate special – A student who is (1) non-degree seeking and holds no degree or certificate; or
                        (2) non-degree seeking, holding any level degree, but taking only courses for undergraduate
                        credit; or (3) non-degree seeking, holding no bachelor's degree, and taking courses
                        for both graduate and undergraduate credit; or (4) one seeking a Technical Certificate
                        of Credit.
                     
                     
                     Unduplicated count - The sum of students enrolled for credit with each student counted only once during
                        the reporting period, regardless of when the student enrolled.
                     
                     
                       V
                     
                     
                      
                     
                       W
                     
                     
                     White - A person having origins in any of the original peoples of Europe, the Middle East,
                        or North Africa.
                     
                     
                     Work study and employment - Federal and state work study aid, and any employment packaged by your institution
                        in financial aid awards.
                     
                     
                       X
                     
                     
                      
                     
                       Y
                     
                     
                      
                     
                       Z
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Return to top
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        About 
                        
                           
                              
                              Helpdesk Request
                              Staff
                              FAQ and Glossary
                              Peer Institutions
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Enrollment Report Generator
                              
                           
                           
                              Graduation Report Generator
                              
                           
                           
                              Faculty/Staff Report Generator
                              
                           
                           
                              Grade Distributions
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/oir/about/faq.php
