http://www.memphis.edu/focusact/faqs.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			FOCUS Act
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Press Releases
                        FAQs
                        Transition Team
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	FOCUS Act
                              	
                        Frequently Asked Questions
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     General Questions
                     
                     
                        
                        What are the expected benefits of this change?
                           
                           
                              
                              We anticipate more autonomy and control, plus the speed and agility to respond to
                                 the changing dynamics of higher education. There will be a keener sense of advocacy
                                 of the University of Memphis and the needs specific to our campus and community.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        What challenges do we anticipate with the transition?
                           
                           
                              
                              The UofM will be assuming full authority for its future. With this autonomy comes
                                 increased responsibility. As such, we will need to review and establish policies that
                                 reflect and support our mission. We need to establish a board with proper policies
                                 and devote time to educating and training board members.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        How quickly will this change take place?
                           
                           
                              
                              The FOCUS Act must first be approved by the General Assembly and signed into law by
                                 the Governor. As the act is now written, it calls for a transition period starting
                                 July 1, 2016. Board members would be appointed by the Governor and confirmed by the
                                 General Assembly. We anticipate the boards to be functional by mid-2017.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Does this affect how the UofM gets funded by the state?
                           
                           
                              
                              No. The Tennessee Higher Education Commission will continue to determine the state's
                                 funding formula.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Will this affect UofM's tenure process?
                           
                           
                              
                              The bill requires that the UofM's state university board "promulgate a tenure policy
                                 or policies for faculty." The bill requires that the "policy or policies shall ensure
                                 academic freedom and provide sufficient professional security to attract the best
                                 qualified faculty available for the institutions."
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        How is the University of Memphis involved in the FOCUS Act discussions?
                           
                           
                              
                              Governor Haslam established a transition task force to offer guidance on the proposed
                                 FOCUS Act during the legislative process and its potential implementation once approved.
                                 President Rudd was named by Governor Haslam to serve on that task force as a member
                                 of the steering committee, which is charged with evaluating key operational areas
                                 that will need adjusting under the FOCUS Act, and to ensure that all sectors of Tennessee
                                 public higher education are positioned to maximize student success under the new governance
                                 structure.
                              
                              
                              In addition to his direct involvement with the transition task force, Dr. Rudd hosted
                                 a series of open forums in February for faculty, staff and students; deans, chairs
                                 and program directors; and the Faculty Senate to ensure that he was able to accurately
                                 represent the concerns of the UofM community during his committee participation.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     State University Board Questions
                     
                     
                        
                        Will there be faculty representation on the state university board?
                           
                           
                              
                              Yes. Each state university board will have an active faculty member who will be a
                                 voting member of the board. The faculty member will have a two-year term and and will
                                 be selected in a manner determined by the faculty senate of the respective institution.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Will there be student representation on the state university board?
                           
                           
                              
                              Yes. Each state university board will have a student who will be a nonvoting member
                                 of the board. The student member will have a one-year term and will be appointed by
                                 the state university board.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Who else will be on the state university board?
                           
                           
                              
                              The complete board will have 10 members (nine voting and one nonvoting). The governor
                                 will appoint eight of the 10 board members. At least six of the voting members must
                                 be Tennessee residents, and at least three of the governor's appointees must be alumni
                                 of the institution.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        How long are board members' terms?
                           
                           
                              
                              The initial appointments will be for staggered terms of three, four and six years.
                                 After the initial terms, all terms will be six years.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Is the university president a member of the board?
                           
                           
                              
                              No. The president will be a nonvoting attendee, but not a member. The state university
                                 board will select the president, as well as assess his or her performance.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        What are the powers of the state university board?
                           
                           
                              
                              The board will have extensive powers, including to:
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Select and employ chief executive officers.
                                    
                                    Confirm appointment of administrative personnel, teachers and other employees and
                                       set salaries and terms of office.
                                    
                                    
                                    Prescribe curricula and requirements for diplomas and degrees (but each board must
                                       maintain alignment across state higher education by advancing the The Tennessee Higher
                                       Education Commission state master plan).
                                    
                                    
                                    Establish "reasonable and appropriate" rules defining residency used to determine
                                       whether or not out-of-state tuition is charged.
                                    
                                    
                                    Approve operating budgets and set fiscal policies; due to bond issue matters, The
                                       Tennessee Board of Regents will have administrative roles for the budget process.
                                    
                                    
                                    Establish policies and regulations regarding campus life.
                                    
                                    Assume general responsibility for operation, delegating to the president powers and
                                       duties as necessary and appropriate for the efficient administration of the institution
                                       and its programs.
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Tennessee Board of Regents Questions
                     
                     
                        
                        T ennessee Board of Regents Focus Act Website
                        
                        What will the Tennessee Board of Regents govern?
                           
                           
                              
                              The Tennessee Board of Regents will maintain control over the community colleges and
                                 Tennessee College of Applied Technology locations.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Is there anything that the The Tennessee Board of Regents will continue to do for
                              the universities?
                           
                           
                              
                              During the transition period beginning July 1, 2016, and ending November 30, 2017,
                                 the The Tennessee Board of Regents will continue the following functions on behalf
                                 of the state university boards:
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    data systems
                                    
                                    capital project planning and management
                                    
                                    procurement
                                    
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              Starting on November 30, 2017, state university boards will be allowed to request
                                 to assume the performance of these functions from the Tennessee higher education commission,
                                 otherwise the Tennessee Board of Regents will continue the above mentioned functions.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Frequently Asked Questions
                              
                           
                           
                              Transition Team
                              
                           
                           
                              Governor's UofM Trustee Appointments
                              
                           
                           
                              Timeline
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 11/2/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/focusact/faqs.php
