http://www.memphis.edu/studentaffairs/students/assistantships.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Division of Student Affairs
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About Us
                        Departments
                        For Students
                        For Faculty & Staff
                        For Parents
                        Give Back
                     
                     
                        
                           For Students
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Student Services
                                 New Student Convocation
                                 Financial Aid Student Jobs
                                 Graduate Assistantships
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Division of Student Affairs
                              	
                        
                              	For Students
                              	
                        Student Affairs Graduate Assistantships
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Student Affairs Graduate Assistantships
                     
                     Open Graduate Assistantships have descriptions and contact information below. Additional
                        position descriptions will be posted as they become available.
                     
                     
                     Open assistantships for 2016-2017 are currently being posted and the page will be
                        updated as offices begin to search for candidates. 
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Vice President for Student Affairs Office
                           
                           
                              
                              General: Filled
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Assistant Vice President, Student Development
                           
                           
                              
                              General: Filled
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Adult and Commuter Student Services
                           
                           
                              
                              GA I: Marketing and Event Coordinator: Filled
                              
                              GA III: Student Development: Filled
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Campus Recreation and Intramural Services
                           
                           
                              
                              General: Filled
                              
                              Memphis Healthy U: Filled
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Career Services
                           
                           
                              
                              GA I: Recruiting: Filled
                              
                              GA II: Counseling: Filled
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Commencement
                           
                           
                              
                              General: Filled
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Counseling Center
                           
                           
                              
                              Career Encounters: Filled
                              
                              Research: Filled
                              
                              Testing Center (3): Filled
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Conference Planning and Operations
                           
                           
                              
                              General: Filled
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Educational Support Program
                           
                           
                              
                              General (10): Filled
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Dean of Students Office
                           
                           
                              
                              Accounting: Filled
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Disability Resources for Students
                           
                           
                              
                              LD-ADHD-Autism Spectrum: Filled
                              
                              Career: Filled
                              
                              Notetaker Coordinator: Filled
                              
                              Administrative: Filled
                              
                              Assistive Technology Lab: Filled
                              
                              Front Desk/Deaf+HH: Filled
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Office of Student Conduct
                           
                           
                              
                              Case Manager: Filled
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Multicultural Affairs
                           
                           
                              
                              General: Filled
                              
                              International Students: Filled
                              
                              Inclusion and Sexual Diversity: Filled
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Parent & Family Services
                           
                           
                              
                              General: Filled
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Residence Life
                        
                        
                           
                           Hall Directors:
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Graduate Hall Director - Centennial Place: Filled
                                 
                                 Graduate Hall Director - South Hall : Open
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              Project Coordinator: Open
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Student Health Services
                           
                           
                              
                              Nutrition Educator: Filled
                              
                              Health Education: Filled
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Student Leadership & Involvement
                           
                           
                              
                              LEAD: Filled
                              
                              Graduate Advisor for SAC: Filled
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Student Affairs Learning & Assessment
                           
                           
                              
                              General: Filled
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                     Residence Life
                     
                      Graduate Hall Director - South Hall
                     
                     Description:  An excellent opportunity for a graduate student who is interested in higher education
                        or a related field. This is a live in position and has the responsibility of assisting
                        in the student development, programming, and administrative management of 1 residence
                        halls, or apartment complex housing 150-200 students. This position will be involved
                        in the recruitment, training, supervision, and evaluation of Resident Advisors and
                        Desk Assistants employed to work in their buildings. The Graduate Assistant may also
                        have some responsibility of advising hall councils, administering the discipline process,
                        and counseling and advising residents within the community. This position is directly
                        supervised by the Area Coordinator
                     
                     
                     Duties and Responsibilities: 
                     
                     
                        
                        Assists in selecting, supervising, training and evaluating resident hall staff and
                           desk staff.
                        
                        
                        Communicates, interprets, and administers residence hall living standards, the Student
                           Code and other University policies and procedures pertaining to Residence Life.
                        
                        
                        Facilitates on-site conflict resolution.
                        
                        Serves as a part of a primary leadership response team to provide crisis management
                           and intervention.
                        
                        
                        Provides leadership in the development and execution of training and development sessions
                           and running meetings.
                        
                        
                        Provides assistance to students and staff regarding personal, cultural, financial
                           and academic issues and makes referrals to University and community agencies.
                        
                        
                        Advises students, faculty, staff and the public regarding University and Housing policies, procedures,
                           rules and regulations.
                        
                        
                        Participates as a member of the residence hall management team.
                        
                        Coordinates the planning of educational programs which emphasize multiculturalism, community
                           development, conflict management and communication.
                        
                        
                        Attends regular hall and departmental staff meetings.
                        
                        Plans and coordinates programs and dialogues that promote positive cross-cultural opportunities.
                        
                        Assists with the coordination and management of opening and closing the residence
                           hall.
                        
                        
                        Performs room and building inspections.
                        
                        Performs miscellaneous job-related duties as assigned.
                        
                     
                     
                     Qualifications: 
                     
                     
                        
                        Must be enrolled and accepted as a full-time degree seeking graduate student.
                        
                        Must maintain a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0 to hold the position.
                        
                        Maintain a clear judicial record with the Department of Housing and Residence Life
                           and the Dean of Students' Office.
                        
                        
                        Must sleep and live-in the assigned Graduate Hall Director room and building.
                        
                        Display leadership qualities or characteristics as evidenced by previous leadership
                           experiences, recommendations, and evaluations.
                        
                        
                        Display strong interpersonal skills through proven ability to interact effectively
                           with others.
                        
                        
                        Required to work 20 hours a week
                        
                        Experience in a residence hall or student affairs position preferred
                        
                        A two-year commitment is preferred
                        
                     
                     
                     Compensation includes:  A monthly stipend, campus apartment, and tuition remission.
                     
                     
                     Interested applicants should email Amanda Virag at avirag@memphis.edu . Open until filled.
                     
                      
                     
                      Project Coordinator
                     
                     Description:  An excellent opportunity for a graduate student who is interested in higher education
                        or a related field. The student is responsible for working approximately 20 hours
                        per week. This position primarily involves:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Serving as Residence Hall Council (RHC) Advisor
                        
                        Assisting as needed with the current Living Learning Communities (LLC)
                           
                           
                              
                              Facilitate & create specialty programming and/or events as needed
                              
                              Assist with supplemental instruction
                              
                              Assist as needed with Academic Counseling
                              
                              Assist with assessment
                              
                              Work with the mentors of the program (First Generation)
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Train the RHC Officers and work directly with this group to help them complete all
                           projects
                        
                        
                        Provide leadership on the development and execution of training and development sessions
                           and running meetings
                        
                        
                        Participates in professional Staff Training
                        
                        Assists as necessary with RA training
                        
                        Maintains Office Hours
                        
                        Other duties as assigned
                        
                     
                     
                     Qualifications:  
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Must be accepted and enrolled as a full-time graduate student
                        
                        Must maintain a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0
                        
                        Maintain a clear judicial record with the Department of Housing and Residence Life
                           and with the Dean of Students Office
                        
                        
                        Display leadership qualities or characteristics as evidenced by previous leadership
                           experiences, recommendations, and evaluations
                        
                        
                        Display strong interpersonal skills through proven ability to interact effectively
                           with others
                        
                        
                        A two-year commitment is preferred.
                        
                     
                     
                     Compensation includes:  Monthly stipend, campus apartment, and tuition remission.
                     
                     
                     Interested applicants should email Michael Courson at mjcurson@memphis.edu . Open until filled.
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        For Students
                        
                           
                              
                              Student Services
                              New Student Convocation
                              Financial Aid Student Jobs
                              Graduate Assistantships
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Contact us
                              Let us know how we may assist you
                           
                           
                              Organizational Chart
                              Learn about our division's organizational structure
                           
                           
                              Mission and Goals
                              Learn about what drives us
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/30/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/studentaffairs/students/assistantships.php
