http://www.memphis.edu/management/faculty/pwright.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Fogelman College - Department of Management
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Welcome
                        Programs
                        Courses
                        Faculty
                        PhD Students
                        Research
                        FCBE
                     
                     
                        
                           Faculty
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Welcome
                                 Programs
                                 Courses
                                 Faculty
                                 PhD Students
                                 Research
                                 Contact Us
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	MGMT
                              	
                        
                              	Faculty
                              	
                        PETER WRIGHT
                     
                  
                  
                     
                      
                     
                      
                        
                         
                           
                            
                              
                              
                              
                               
                              
                            
                           
                            
                              
                              
                                 
                                 PETER WRIGHT
                                 
                               
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Professor,  Department of Management
                                 
                               
                              
                               
                                 
                                  
                                    
                                    Phone 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       901,678,2434
                                       
                                     
                                    
                                  
                                 
                                  
                                    
                                    Email 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       pwright@memphis.edu
                                       
                                     
                                    
                                  
                                 
                                  
                                    
                                    Fax 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       901.678.2685
                                       
                                     
                                    
                                  
                                 
                               
                              
                               
                                 
                                  
                                    
                                    Office 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       BA 318
                                       
                                     
                                    
                                  
                                 
                                  
                                    
                                    Office Hours 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Before and after class and by appointment
                                       
                                     
                                    
                                  
                                 
                               
                              
                               
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 Website
                                  
                                 
                               
                              
                            
                           
                         
                        
                        
                        
                        Biography 
                        
                        
                           	Peter Wright holds the University of Memphis Endowed Chair of Excellence in Free
                           Enterprise Management. He received his M.B.A. and Ph.D. from the Louisiana State University.
                           He served as the owner and managing director of an industrial component firm with
                           transactions across North America, Europe, Middle East, and Far East. He has consulted
                           with Union Carbide, Eastman Kodak, Alcoa, as well as privately held firms.
                        
                        
                        
                           	Professor Wright has published management and strategic management textbooks. His
                           publications appear in leading journals, such as Strategic Management Journal, Academy of Management Journal, Academy of Management
                              Review, Academy of Management Executive, Academy of Management Perspectives, Journal
                              of Management, Strategic Organization, Harvard Business Review, Journal of Banking
                              and Finance, Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science , among others. His writings have been published by Harvard Business School Press,
                           Allyn and Bacon, Prentice Hall, Dame Thomson, Business Publications, Penguin, Hawthorn,
                           Elsevier Science, Irwin, University of Southern California Press, Pearson, and Sage,
                           among others. His academic publications have been reported by the CBS Television Evening News, the Washington Post, the Wall Street Journal, Business
                              Week, the Economist, the Commercial Appeal , among others.
                        
                        
                        
                           	His current research encompasses corporate governance, agency theory, tournament
                           theory, valuation of firm investments, among others.  Professor Wright is a member
                           of the Academy of Management and the Strategic Management Society.
                         
                        
                        Research 
                        
                        
                           	Representative Publications
                        
                        
                           	Krug, J. A., Wright, P., & Kroll, M., "Top Management Turnover Following Mergers
                           & Acquisitions:  Solid Research To Date But Much To Be Learned," Academy of Management Perspectives , 28, 2014, pp. 147-163. 
                        
                        
                        
                           	Wright, P., Krug, J. A. & Ma, R., "Levels of Resources and Enterprise Outcomes: 
                           The Case of Smaller Firms Based Abroad," Journal of Business and Entrepreneurship , 24: 2, 2013, pp. 69-78. 
                        
                        
                        
                           	Nelson, T., Singh, K., Elenkov, D., Ma, R., Krug, J., Davis, B., and Wright, P.,
                           "Theoretical Contributions to Governance of Samller Firms," Journal of Business and Entrepreneurship , 25, 2013, pp. 21-42. 
                        
                        
                        
                           	Elenkov, D., Wright, P., Pimentel-Kutz, J., Naoumova, L., & Nabirukhina, M., "Subcultures
                           in a Country, Work Values and Preferred Workplace Rewards:  New Evidence from Russia,"  
                           Journal of Strategic and International Studies , 13, 2013, pp. 32-43. 
                        
                        
                        
                           	Wright, P., Kroll, M., Walters, B. & Ma, R., "Intersection of Upper Echelons and
                           Corporate Governance:  Ramifications for Market Response to Acquisition Announcements,"  Journal of Managerial Issues , 24: 4, 2013, pp. 433-449. 
                        
                        
                        
                           	Bryant, P., Fabian, F., Kinnamon, E. & Wright, P., "Tailoring Entrepreneurial Education: 
                           Exploring Components of Entrepreneurship Education for Underrepresented Groups," Journal of Business and Entrepreneurship , 23:  2, 2012, pp. 1-24.
                        
                        
                        
                           	Jackson, W.T., Elenkov, D., Davis, B., & Wright, P.,  "Psychological Contracts in
                           Enterprises," Journal of Organizational Culture, Communications and Conflict , 16: 1, 2012, pp. 133-154. 
                        
                        
                        
                           	Walters, B., Kroll, M., & Wright, P. "The Impact of TMT Board Members Control and
                           Environment on Post - IPO Performance," Academy of Management Journal , 53: 3, 2010, pp. 572-595. 
                        
                        
                        
                           	Wright, P., Kroll, M., Mukherji, A., & Pettus, M. “Do the Contingencies of External
                           Monitoring, Ownership Incentives, or Free Cash Flow Explain Opposing Firm Performance
                           Expectations?” Journal of Management and Governance , 2009.
                        
                        
                        
                           	Kroll, M., Walters, B., & Wright, P. “Board Vigilance, Director Experience, and Corporate
                           Outcomes,” Strategic Management Journal , 2008, pp. 363-382.
                        
                        
                        
                           	Walters, B., Kroll, M., & Wright, P. “CEO Ownership and Effective Boards: Impacts
                           on Firm Outcomes,” Strategic Organization , 2008, pp. 259-283.
                        
                        
                        
                           	Wright, P., Kroll, M., Krug, J., & Pettus, M. Influences of Top Management Team Incentives
                           on Firm Risk Taking, Strategic Management Journal , 2007, pp. 81-89.
                        
                        
                        
                           	Lado, A., Boyd, N., Wright, P., & Kroll, M., “Paradox and Theorizing Within the Resource-Based
                           View,” Academy of Management Review , 2006, 31, pp. 115-131.
                        
                        
                        
                           	Wright, P., Kroll, M., Lado, A., & Elenkov, D. "Influences of Relative Rewards of
                           Top Managers of Firm Performance," Strategic Organization , 3, 2005, pp. 311-335.
                        
                        
                        
                           	Elenkov, D., Judge, W., & Wright, P. "Strategic Leadership and Executive Innovation
                           Influence: An International Multi-Cluster Comparative Study," Strategic Management Journal , 26, 2005, pp. 665-682.
                        
                        
                        
                           	Wright, P., Ferris, S., Vaughn, M., & Jackson, W. "Are Competitors Advantageous or
                           Disadvantageous in Consolidated Versus Fragmented Industries?," Academy of Strategic Management Journal , 3, 2004, pp. 47-64.
                        
                        
                        
                           	Chung, K., Wright, P., & Kedia, B., “Corporate Governance and Market Valuation of
                           Capital and R & D Investments,” Review of Financial Economics , 2003, pp. 161-172.
                        
                        
                        
                           	Desai, A., Wright, P., & Chung, K., “Impact of Changes in Strategic Investments on
                           Shareholder Returns: The Role of Growth Opportunities,” Journal of Applied Business Research , 2003, 19, pp.41-56.
                        
                        
                        
                           	Wright, P., Kroll, M., & Elenkov, E. “Acquisition Returns, Increase in Firm Size
                           and Chief Executive Officer Compensation: The Moderating Role of Monitoring,” Academy of Management Journal, 2002, pp. 599-609.
                        
                        
                        
                           	Wright, P., Kroll, M., Lado, A., & Van Ness, B. “The Structure of Ownership and Corporate
                           Acquisition Strategies,” Strategic Management Journal , 2002, 22, pp. 41-53.
                        
                        
                        
                           	Wright, P., & Kroll, M. “Executive Discretion and Corporate Performance as Determinants
                           of CEO Compensation, Contingent on External Monitoring Activities,” Journal of Management and Governance , 2002, pp. 189-214.
                        
                        
                        
                           	Wright, P., Ferris, S., & Sarin, A., “An Agency Comparison of the Keiretsu and the
                           Japanese Independent Firm,” Academy of Strategic Management Journal , 2002, 1, pp. 1-18.
                        
                        
                        
                           	Kroll, M., Toombs, L., & Wright, P., “Napoleon’s Tragic March Home from Moscow: Lessons
                           in Hubris,” Academy of Management Executive, 2000, 14, pp. 117-128.
                        
                        
                        
                           	Kroll, M., Wright, P., & Heiens, R., “The Contribution of Product Quality to Competitive
                           Advantage: Impacts on Systematic Variance and Unexplained Variance in Returns,” Strategic Management Journal , 1999, 20, pp. 375-384.
                        
                        
                        
                           	Chung, K.H., Wright, P., Charoenwong, C., “Investment Opportunities and Market Reaction
                           to Capital Expenditure Decisions,” Journal of Banking and Finance , 1998, 22, pp. 41-60.
                        
                        
                        
                           	Wright, P., Kroll, M., & Parnell, J., Strategic Management: Concepts and Cases , Prentice Hall (4th ed.), 1998.
                        
                        
                        
                           	Wright, P. & Ferris, S., “Agency Conflict and Corporate Strategy: The Effect of Divestment
                           on Corporate Value”, Strategic Management Journal , 1997, 18, pp. 77-83.
                        
                        
                        
                           	Kroll, M., Wright, P., Toombs, L., & Leavell, H., “Form of Control - - A Critical
                           Determinant of Acquisition Performance and CEO Rewards”, Strategic Management Journal , 1997, 18, pp. 85-96.
                        
                        
                        
                           	Albanese, R., Franklin, J., & Wright, P., Management , Dame/Thomson Learning, 1997.
                        
                        
                        
                           	Wright, P., Ferris, S., Sarin, A., & Awasthi, V., “The Impact of Corporate Insider,
                           Blockholder, and Institutional Equity Ownership on Firm Risk Taking”, Academy of Management Journal , 1996, 39, 2, pp. 441-463.
                        
                        
                        
                           	Wright, P., Ferris, S., Hiller, J., Kroll, M., “Competitiveness Through Management
                           of Diversity: Effects on Stock Price Valuation,” Academy of Management Journal , 1995, 38, 1, pp. 272-287.
                         
                        
                        Teaching 
                        
                        
                           	Teaching areas include strategic management at the Ph.D. seminar, M.B.A., and undergraduate
                           levels. 
                        
                        
                        
                           	Professor Wright has chaired the dissertation committees of fifteen Ph.D. students
                           and served on the committees of six additional Ph.D. students. 
                        
                        
                        
                           	 
                         
                        
                        Service 
                        
                        
                           	Service to the University, the Fogelman College of Business & Economics, and to the
                              Department of Management:  
                        
                        
                           	
                           
                              		University President's Chairs of Excellence Council
                           
                           	
                           
                              		Chair and committee member of University College Students
                           
                           	
                           
                              		Member of University Council for Graduate Studies
                           
                           	
                           
                              		Faculty Senate Representative
                           
                           	
                           
                              		Chair, College Ph.D. Program Committee
                           
                           	
                           
                              		Member of Teaching Excellence Fellowship Selection Committee
                           
                           	
                           
                              		Member of College of Business Teaching Excellence Award Committee
                           
                           	
                           
                              		Member of College of Business Tenure and Promotion Committee
                           
                           	
                           
                              		Member of College of Business Roles and Rewards Committee
                           
                           	
                           
                              		Chair, Department of Management Tenure and Promotion Committee
                           
                           	
                           
                              		Chair, Search Committee for Recruiting Faculty in Strategic Management
                           
                           	
                           
                              		Member of Management Graduate Programs Committee
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        
                           	Service to Management Discipline
                        
                        
                           	
                           
                              		Ad hoc reviewer, Strategic Management Journal
                           
                           	
                           
                              		Ad hoc reviewer, Academy of Management Journal
                           
                           	
                           
                              		Ad hoc reviewer, Academy of Management Review
                           
                           	
                           
                              		Ad hoc reviewer, Administrative Science Quarterly
                           
                           	
                           
                              		Ad hoc reviewer, Journal of Management.
                           
                           	
                           
                              		Ad hoc reviewer, Journal of Business Research
                           
                           	
                           
                              		Ad hoc reviewer, Journal of Management Studies
                           
                           	
                           
                              		Ad hoc reviewer, Southern Management Association
                           
                           	
                           
                              		Reviewer, National Academy of Management
                           
                           	
                           
                              		Editorial Board, American Business Review.
                           
                           	
                           
                              		Special Issues Editor, Business Perspectives
                           
                           	
                           
                              		Associate Editor, Journal of Management in Practice
                           
                           	
                           
                              		Editorial Board, Journal of Business Strategies
                           
                           	
                           
                              		Member, Strategic Management Society
                           
                           	
                           
                              		Member, Academy of Management
                           
                           	
                           
                              		Outside reviewer, Tenure & Promotions decisions for various universities
                           
                           
                         
                        
                        
                         
                        
                      
                     
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Faculty
                        
                           
                              
                              Welcome
                              Programs
                              Courses
                              Faculty
                              PhD Students
                              Research
                              Contact Us
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              MGMT News & Events
                              Learn about current events happening in our department!
                           
                           
                              Research Colloquia
                              Keep up with the latest Management academic research in our upcoming seminars. 
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us!
                           
                           
                              Return to FCBE
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 11/30/15
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/management/faculty/pwright.php
