http://www.memphis.edu/bitm/faculty/billkettinger.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Fogelman College - Department of Business Information and Technology
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        BIT
                        Programs
                        Faculty
                        Research
                        Admissions
                        Current Students
                        FCBE
                     
                     
                        
                           Faculty
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Vladimir Ambartsoumian
                                 Lloyd Brooks
                                 Judith Brown
                                 Jasbir Dhaliwal
                                 Mark Gillenson
                                 Brian Janz
                                 Bill Kettinger
                                 Naveen Kumar
                                 Euntae "Ted" Lee
                                 Jong Seok Lee
                                 Robin Poston
                                 Sandra Richardson
                                 Margaret Schultz
                                 Judith Simon
                                 Srikar Velichety
                                 Chen Zhang
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	BIT
                              	
                        
                              	Faculty
                              	
                        Bill Kettinger
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                     		  
                     
                        
                        
                        
                           
                           
                                                               
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Bill Kettinger
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Professor and FedEx Chair of Excellence in MIS, Department of Business Information
                                 and Technology
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Phone
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       901.678.4547
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Email
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       wjkttngr@memphis.edu
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Fax
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       901.678.4151
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Office
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       346 FAB
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Office Hours
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                                 										
                                 
                                 
                                                                         
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        			 
                        			  
                        
                        
                        About Bill Kettinger
                        
                        Bill Kettinger is a Professor and the FedEx Chair of Excellence in MIS at the Fogelman
                           College of Business and Economics at The University of Memphis. He previously served
                           as Professor of Information Systems and Moore Foundation Fellow at the Moore School
                           of Business of the University of South Carolina. He has taught global IT management
                           and IS research methods in International Masters of Business Administration (IMBA)
                           and MIS PhD programs and in executive development programs both domestically and abroad.
                           Professor Kettinger has regularly taught in the MBA programs at IMD in Lausanne Switzerland,
                           in Vienna, Austria and at the Tecnologico de Monterrey in Mexico. He has won numerous
                           teaching awards. In 2013, he was awarded a Fulbright Professorship to Wirtschaftsuniversität
                           Wien, Vienna Austria.
                        
                        
                        
                        Dr. Kettinger has over 100 publications including 4 books, over 70 refereed journal
                           articles in such journals as MIS Quarterly, Information Systems Research, JMIS, JAIS,
                           EJIS, ISJ, Decision Sciences, and Sloan Management Review, numerous monographs, book
                           chapters, proceedings, and teaching cases. He was ranked as 29th in the world among
                           authors publishing in the AIS 6 top journals (senior scholar basket of top MIS academic
                           journals) over the twenty-year period 1993-2013 and listed as one of the MIS Quarterly
                           most prolific authors. He currently serves as a Senior Editor of MISQ and MISQ Executive
                           and serves, or has served, as an Associate Editor of MIS Quarterly, Information Systems
                           Research and JAIS and has twice served as a special editor for JMIS.
                        
                        
                        
                        He completed a 3 year study sponsored by Accenture and IMD that discovered a new measure
                           of effective information use (Information Orientation) that predicts business performance.
                           Based on this research project, he coauthored, Making the Invisible, Visible: How
                           Companies Win with the Right Information, People and IT published by John Wiley Press,
                           which provides a practical guide to managers developing strategic measures of information
                           assets and knowledge management effectiveness. This book was cited in the Wall Street
                           Journal in 2011 as a CIO 'must read'. Scholarly results and discussion of this research
                           project appear in Information Orientation: The Link to Business Performance by Oxford
                           University Press. He also co-edited Process Think: Winning Perspectives for Business
                           Change in the Information Age that examines the evolution and practical application
                           of the process change movement.
                        
                        
                        Bill has over 30 years consulting experience in both the public and private sectors
                           with such organizations as Accenture, AT&T, Cambridge Technology Partners, IBM, Bose,
                           Renaissance Interactive and Philips. He has been the recipient of numerous research
                           awards such as th Society of Information Management's best paper award honoring outstanding
                           work in the field of information systems. He also directed a SIM Advanced Practice
                           Council multi-year international study of the business drivers of IT value. Bill served
                           as Assistant Dean for the USC Business School from 1988 to 1993 and has been the principal
                           investigator on several million dollars' worth of grants and gifts. He also served
                           as the Director of the USC Center of Information Management and Technology Research
                           from 1993-2004. He received his Ph.D. and an M.S. from the University of South Carolina
                           and an M.P.A. from the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and a B.S. from Northeastern
                           University.
                        
                        
                        Education
                        
                        Doctor of Philosophy, The University of South Carolina Master of Science, The University of South Carolina Master of Public Administration, The University of Massachusetts at Amherst Bachelor of Science, Northeastern University
                        
                        
                        Interests
                        
                        Teaching Interests PhD Research Seminar; IT Management & Planning; IT for MBAs
                        
                        
                        Research Interests Strategic Information Management; Digital Business Strategy; IS Management & Service
                           Quality; IT and the Supply Chain; IT-enabled Control of Professionals; Process Redesign
                        
                        
                        Selected Research 
                        
                        Hu, T., Kettinger, W.J. and Poston, R.S. 2015. "The Effect of Online Social Value
                           on Satisfaction and Continued Use of Social Media," European Journal of Information
                           Systems (24:4), pp. 391-410. Abstract
                        
                        
                        Kettinger, W.J., Li,Y., Davis, J.M., and Kettinger, L. 2015. "The roles of psychological
                           climate, information management capabilities, and IT support on knowledge-sharing:
                           an MOA perspective," European Journal of Information Systems (24:1), pp. 59-75. Abstract
                        
                        
                        Richardson, S., Kettinger, W.J., Banks, S.B., and Quintana, Y. 2014. "IT and Agility
                           in the Social Enterprise: A Case Study of St Jude Children's Research Hospital's "Cure4Kids"
                           IT-Platform for International Outreach," Journal of the Association for Information
                           Systems (15:1), pp. 1-32. Abstract
                        
                        
                        Kettinger, W.J., Zhang, C. and Chang K., 2013. "A View from the Top: Integrated Information
                           Delivery and Effective Information Use from the Senior Executive's Perspective," Information
                           Systems Research, 24(3), pp. 842-860. Abstract
                        
                        
                        Wakolbinger, T., Toyasaki, F., and Kettinger, W.J. 2013. "The Value of Information
                           Systems for Product Recovery Management," International Journal of Production Research,
                           (51:4), pp. 1214-1235.
                        
                        
                        Fayard, D., Lee, L., Leitch, A.,and Kettinger, W.J., 2012. "Effect of Internal Cost
                           Management, Information Systems Integration, and Absorptive Capacity on Interorganizational
                           Cost Management in Supply Chains," Accounting Organization & Society, (37:3), pp.
                           168-187. Abstract
                        
                        
                        Kettinger, W.J., Zhang, C. and Marchand, D.A. 2011, "CIO and Business Executive Leadership
                           Approaches to Establishing Company-wide Information Orientation," MISQ Executive,
                           2011, Vol. 10, No. 4, pp. 157-174. Abstract
                        
                        
                        Kettinger, W.J. and Marchand, D.A. 2011. "Information Management Practices (IMP) from
                           the Senior Manager's Perspective: An Investigation of the IMP Construct and Its Measurement,"
                           Information Systems Journal (21:5), pp. 385–406. Abstract
                        
                        
                        Kettinger, W. J., and Li Y., 2010. "The Infological Equation Extended: Towards Conceptual
                           Clarity in the Relationship between Data, Information and Knowledge," European Journal
                           of Information Systems (19:4), pp. 409-421. Abstract
                        
                        
                        Davis, J. M., Kettinger, W. J., and Kuney, D. G. 2009. "When Users are IT Experts
                           Too: The Effects of Joint IT Competence and Partnership on Satisfaction with Enterprise-level
                           Systems Implementation," European Journal of Information Systems (18:1), pp. 26-37.
                           Abstract
                        
                        
                        Li, Y., and Kettinger, W. J. 2006. "An Evolutionary Information-Processing Theory
                           of Knowledge Creation," Journal of the Association of Information Systems (JAIS) (7:1),
                           pp. 93-617. Abstract
                        
                        
                        Kettinger, W. J., and Lee, C. 2005. "Zones of Tolerance: Alternative Scales for Measuring
                           Information Systems Service Quality," MIS Quarterly (29:4), pp. 607-623. Abstract
                        
                        
                        Kohli, R., and Kettinger, W.J., 2004, "Informating the Clan: Controlling Physician
                           Costs and Outcomes," MIS Quarterly (28:3), pp. 363-394. Abstract
                        
                        
                        For a more comprehensive list of Dr. Kettinger's publications click here.
                        
                        
                     
                     								
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Faculty
                        
                           
                              
                              Vladimir Ambartsoumian
                              Lloyd Brooks
                              Judith Brown
                              Jasbir Dhaliwal
                              Mark Gillenson
                              Brian Janz
                              Bill Kettinger
                              Naveen Kumar
                              Euntae "Ted" Lee
                              Jong Seok Lee
                              Robin Poston
                              Sandra Richardson
                              Margaret Schultz
                              Judith Simon
                              Srikar Velichety
                              Chen Zhang
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              BIT News
                              Publications, recognitions and spotlights about faculty and students of the BIT department.
                           
                           
                              BIT Events
                              Find out what's happening at the department and visit our weekly colloquium.
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us!
                           
                           
                              Return to FCBE
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/6/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/bitm/faculty/billkettinger.php
