http://www.memphis.edu/emprelations/engagement.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Employee Relations & Engagement
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Staff Directory
                        Performance Management
                        Awards
                        Other
                        HR
                        Policies
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Employee Relations & Engagement
                              	
                        Employee Recognition
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Recognition & Engagement Spotlight
                     
                     
                        
                        Career Milestone Awards
                        
                        Excellence Awards
                        
                        Harriet R. Montgomery Customer Service Excellence Award
                        
                        Tiger Spotlight
                        
                        Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day
                        
                     
                     
                      Career Milestone AwardS
                     
                     
                     The Career Milestone Awards Program is designed to recognize employees for their years
                        of service to the University of Memphis. Staff employees are eligible for recognition
                        during their fifth year of service and faculty during their tenth year of service.
                        Subsequent recognition occurs thereafter in five (5) year increments. Each year, the
                        Office of Employee Relations and Engagement will sponsor a Career Milestone Awards
                        Ceremony for all staff employees where they are presented with a career milestone
                        award in appreciation of their years of service to the UofM. Faculty recipients are
                        recognized in their respective college/school and presented their awards by the Dean
                        of the college/school.
                     
                     
                     For access to our current Career Milestone Awards recipient listing, please visit this link.
                     
                      
                     
                      Excellence Awards
                     
                     
                     Complete Photos from 2016 Excellence Awards Ceremony
                     
                     Excellence Award The purpose of the Excellence Award is to recognize employees for an assortment of
                        exceptional efforts and contributions to the University of Memphis. Primarily, this
                        award honors employees who display one or more of the following:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Consistently performs job responsibilities at a level above and beyond normal expectations.
                        
                        Exhibits an exceptional ability to foster collaboration, communication, and cooperation
                           among colleagues and university constituents.
                        
                        
                        Exhibits a high degree of personal ethics and integrity.
                        
                        Has clearly earned the respect of colleagues.
                        
                     
                     
                     In addition, nominees may demonstrate one or more of the following:
                     
                     
                        
                        An exceptional contribution to their department's level of service satisfaction.
                        
                        A significant contribution to the efficiency of an operation or unit.
                        
                        A significant contribution to student success, directly or indirectly.
                        
                     
                     
                     Nominations for the Excellence Award will be accepted from divisional leaders during
                        the nomination period. Supporting documentation should be included and provided to
                        the Office of Employee Relations and Engagement via the online portal by the established
                        deadline.
                     
                     
                     All staff employees with at least one (1) year of service to the University are eligible
                        to receive this award. There may be multiple recipients within one year. Employees
                        recognized are eligible once every five (5) years.
                     
                     
                     2016 Winners
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Corina Walker, Development
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Kristan Kelly, Athletics
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Candy Donald, Lambuth/Academic Affairs
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Walter Hoehn, Information Technology
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Angela Fair, Research
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Maddie Griffith, External Relations
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Colis Chambers, Student Affairs
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Russell Teague, Business & Finance
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Jan Brownlee, Academic Affairs
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Presidential Excellence Award The Presidential Award is the highest award given at the University for staff employees.
                        Honorees are recognized for the lasting impact made on the University through community
                        outreach, outstanding service excellence, support of strategic initiatives, while
                        maintaining exemplary performance. Criteria for this award may include the following.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Support: Demonstrates above and beyond commitment to the support of the students,
                           faculty and staff.
                        
                        
                        Stewardship: Demonstrates a high level of care and responsibility for the well-being
                           of the University and its resources for the benefit of our students, faculty and staff.
                        
                        
                        Innovation: Possesses leadership abilities, embraces creative initiatives, resulting
                           in a positive impact to the University and the surrounding community.
                        
                        
                        Teamwork: Works as a partnership builder while nurturing an environment of camaraderie
                           and collaboration.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     Community Service Outreach Award
                     
                     The University of Memphis Community Service Outreach Award recognizes and honors exceptional
                        individuals who make volunteerism and community service a way of life. This award
                        will be given to the recipient who exemplifies service excellence in volunteering
                        and exhibits a sense of caring and responsibility for others. Partner with citizens
                        to assist in building relationships for the betterment of the community. The award
                        winner will also be someone who makes selfless and extraordinary contributions, in
                        addition to those associated with their normal job duties for the betterment of the
                        University, local community and beyond. Listed below are some of the recognition criteria
                        to consider:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Gives freely and unselfishly of their time to community activities
                        
                        Inspires others to serve and act as a role model
                        
                        Has a positive impact on building partnerships between the University, local community
                           projects and programs
                        
                        
                        Improves the lives of others.
                        
                     
                     
                     Nominations for the Community Service Outreach Award may be submitted by any University
                        of Memphis faculty and staff. An online nomination form that includes a statement
                        of support must be submitted to the Office of Employee Relations & Engagement via
                        the online portal by the established deadline. Note: Multiple nominations being submitted for one person does not guarantee that
                           individual will be the recipient of that category.
                     
                     All staff employees with at least one (1) year of service to the University are eligible
                        to receive this award. There may be multiple recipients within any nomination period.
                        Employees may be eligible for this award once every (5) years.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      Harriet R. Montgomery Customer Service EXCELLENCE Award
                     
                     
                     The Harriet R. Montgomery Customer Service Excellence Award was established through
                        the University of Memphis Foundation upon Harriet R. Montgomery's retirement in recognition
                        for her many years of service to the University of Memphis. This award recognizes
                        University staff members who consistently demonstrate a commitment to the highest
                        levels of customer service excellence. Each month, the University community will have
                        an opportunity to nominate colleagues from a specific Division/area of the University.
                        The monthly recipients will then be recognized during the following year's Excellence
                        Awards event. The nomination form , which includes a statement of support, must be submitted to the Office of Employee
                        Relations & Engagement via the online portal by the established deadline.
                     
                     
                     NOMINATION FORM
                     
                     Award Eligibility and Selection:
                     
                     The employee (nominee):
                     
                     
                        
                        Must have been employed by the University for a minimum of one (1) year in a regular
                           benefits-eligible position.
                        
                        
                        Consistently maintains a professional and friendly attitude with both internal & external
                           customers.
                        
                        
                        Demonstrates that he/she takes time to listen and understands the customers' needs.
                        
                        Gives the customer the information he/she needs, not just what the customer asks.
                        
                        Is thorough and follows-up with customers in a timely manner.
                        
                        May be eligible for this award once every five (5) years.
                        
                        The monthly recipient will be selected by a committee of peers based on the merits
                           specified on the nomination.
                        
                     
                     
                     2016-17 Winners
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 July 2016 Ilene Hogan, Bursar's Office Business & Finance
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 August 2016 Janis Lamar, Economics Academic Affairs
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 September 2016 Kiara Jones, Conference and Event Services Student Affairs
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 October 2016 Betty Wiley, Sociology Academic Affairs
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 November 2016 Business & Finance
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 December 2016 Athletics
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 January 2017 Academic Affairs
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 February 2017 Information Technology
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 March 2017 Business & Finance
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 April 2017 Academic Affairs
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 May 2017 President Research Development External Relations
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 June 2017 Academic Affairs
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      Tiger Spotlight
                     
                     
                     In support of our continuous efforts to embrace a culture of recognition awareness,
                        this online certificate program affords all fellow Tigers the opportunity to "spot"
                        outstanding service throughout the University. Employees may be "spotted" when any
                        of the following characteristics are observed or demonstrated:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Consistently making a significant and positive impact within their department, fostering
                           the mission and goals of the University
                        
                        
                        Excellence in overall work performance
                        
                        Making a personal effort to "go the extra step"
                        
                        Consistent commitment in providing expert service to internal and external customers
                        
                        Serving as a role model through positive interactions with customers
                        
                     
                     
                     To "Spot" a U of M employee today, visit this link !
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Program
                     
                     
                     Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day is sponsored by the Take Our Daughters and
                        Sons to Work Foundation and takes place yearly on the fourth Thursday in April.
                     
                     
                     The program is intended to expose children between the ages of 10-18 to the importance
                        of what a parent or mentor does during the work day, show them the value of education,
                        and provide them an opportunity to envision and discover the power and possibilities
                        available for a successful future.
                     
                     
                     The students participate in an interactive learning program where they have the opportunity
                        to gain firsthand knowledge of the daily tasks performed at work by their parents
                        or mentors. We promote and celebrate the opportunities that girls and boys will discover
                        during this event by being a part of this unique educational experience.
                     
                     
                     For additional information on the Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day, visit http://www.daughtersandsonstowork.org or contact Human Resources - Employee Relations and Engagement at 901.678.2603, 901.678.3540
                        or via e-mail at emprelations@memphis.edu .
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Performance Appraisal
                              The online performance management system for staff evaluations
                           
                           
                              Recognition & Engagement Spotlight
                              Prestigious employee awards and engagement functions hosted by HR
                           
                           
                              Forms
                              All of B&F's forms in one place
                           
                           
                              Business & Finance
                              The Division of Business & Finance at the UofM
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/25/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/emprelations/engagement.php
