http://www.memphis.edu/economics/research/seminars.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Fogelman College - Department of Economics
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Welcome
                        Programs
                        Faculty
                        Research
                        News
                        FCBE
                     
                     
                        
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                 About
                                 Programs
                                 Faculty
                                 Research
                                 News
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	ECON
                              	
                        
                              	Research
                              	
                        Seminars 
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Seminar Series
                     
                     FALL, 2016
                     
                     
                        
                        September 2, Tony Klein (Dresden), "Conditional Variance Dynamics of Gold and other
                           Precious Metals", Room 381, 2:00 p.m.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        September 9, TBA
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        September 16, TBA
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        September 23, Jamin Speer (Memphis), Room 381, 2:00
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        September 30, Daniel Tannenbaum (University of Nebraska), Room 381, 2:00 p.m.
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        October 14, Caitlin McKillop (University of Tennessee Health Science Center), "The
                           Association between Noncognitive Factors, Neighborhood Crime and Health Status in
                           a Low-Income Minority Population", Room 381, 2:00 p.m.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        October 21, Peter McHenry (College of William and Mary), Room 381, 2:00 p.m.
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        October 28, Jacqueline Oliveira (Rhodes College), Room 381, 2:00 p.m.
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        November 4, TBA
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        November 11, TBA
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        December 2, TBA
                        
                     
                     
                     SPRING, 2016
                     
                     
                        
                        February 19, Seung Hoon Lee (Georgia Tech), "Business Groups and Effort Financing"
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        March 4, Jay Walker (Niagara), " Gender in Jeopardy!: The Role of Opponent Gender in High-Stakes Competition ", room 263, 2 p.m.
                        
                        
                        March 18, David Johnson (Central Missouri), "One Sided Matching: Choice Selection
                           With Risky, Rival Outcomes", room 263, 2 p.m.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        April 7, Cheng Cheng (Mississippi), "The Effect of Legalizing Marijuana on Housing
                           Values: Evidence from Colorado."
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        April 12, Chris Laincz (Drexel), "The Impact of Cost-Reducing R&D Spillovers on the
                           Ergotic Distribution of Market Structures," room 263, 2 p.m.
                        
                        
                        April 25, Jobu Babin (Memphis), "A Picture is Worth a Thousand Words ;) Emoji, Computer-Mediated
                           Communication, and Trust," room 263, 9 a.m.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     FALL, 2015
                     
                     
                        
                        August 21, Kayhan Koleyni (Memphis), Room 271, 2:30 p.m. "Two Essays in DSGE Modelling"
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        August 28, Joaquin Lopez (Memphis), Room 271, 2:00 p.m. "A Unified Theory of Tax Evasion in Developing Countries"
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        September 11, Adam Osman (Illinois), Room 263, 2:00 p.m. "Exporting and Firm Performance: Evidence from a Randomized Trial"
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        October 16, Catherine Eckel (Texas A&M), Room 263, 2:00 p.m. "Sacrifice: An Experiment
                           on the Political Economy of Extreme Intergroup Punishment"
                        
                        
                        October 23, Tolu Ayangbayi (Memphis, Dissertation Proposal), Room 263, 2:00 p.m.,
                           " Essays in Applied Microeconomics "
                        
                        
                        November 2, Ryne Marksteiner (Wisconsin), Room 365, 12:00 p.m., " Effects of Removing State Postsecondary Grant Aid Eligibility "
                        
                        
                        November 13, Oksana Loginova (Missouri), Room 263, 2:00 p.m.  " Price Competition in the Presence of an Online Aggregator "
                        
                        
                        November 18, Jobu Babin (Memphis), Room TBA, 10:00 a.m. " Just a Little Pin Prick: Shielding Behavior, Reciprocity, and HPV Vax Uptake "
                        
                        
                        December 1, Demba Fofana (Memphis), Room 263, 12:00 p.m. " Determinants of Wage Growth and Wage Distribution Dynamics "
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        December 4, Maria Bernedo (Georgia State), Room 263, 2:00 p.m. "Time and Risk Preferences and Adaptation to Climate Change"
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Spring, 2015
                     
                     
                        
                        February 20, Seth Zimmerman (Princeton) "Student Loans, College Choice, and Information on the Returns to Higher Education"  
                        
                        
                        February 27, Jin Yeub Kim (Nebraska) "The Economics of the Right to Be Forgotten"  
                        
                        
                        March 23, Jacob Kleinow (Freiberg) " Determinants of Systemically Important Banks: The Case of Europe " (Joint seminar with Finance)  
                        
                        
                        March 26, Yoram Bauman (Ph.D., U of Washington), "Carbon Taxes are Even Better Than
                           You Think"   
                        
                        
                        March 27, Huseyin Yilderim (Duke) "'Giving' in to Social Pressure"  
                        
                        
                        April 3, Luiggi Donayre (Minnesota - Duluth), "The Asymmetric Effects of Oil Price Shocks on the Canadian Economy"  
                        
                        
                        April 10, Alex Nikolsko-Rzhevskyy (Lehigh) "(Taylor) Rules versus Discretion in U.S. Monetary Policy"  
                        
                        
                        April 17,Sebastian Sotelo (Michigan), "Trade Frictions and Agricultural Productivity: Theory and Evidence from Peru"   
                        
                        
                        April 24,Toluwalope Ayangbayi (Memphis), TBA  
                        
                     
                     
                     Fall, 2014
                     
                     
                        
                        September 5, John Komlos (Duke), "Economics and Biology"  
                        
                        
                        September 19, Gary Hoover (Oklahoma), " Malicious Envy and Discouragement: An Experimental Study of the Impact of Inequality
                              on Investment " " Whose Line Is It? Plagiarism in Economics "  
                        
                        
                        September 26, Lingqi Lou (Memphis), "R&D Expenditures on Medical Device Industry Firm, 1979-2012"   
                        
                        
                        September 26, Jillian Carr (Texas A&M). "The Effect of Housing Vouchers on Crime: Evidence from a Lottery"  
                        
                        
                        October 24, Toluwalope Ayangbayi (Memphis), " Household Socioeconomic Status and Health: Estimating the Social Gradient in Child
                              Health in Nigeria "  
                        
                        
                        November 7, Matthew Oliver (Georgia Tech),  “Optimal Capacity and Two-Part Tariffs for a Natural Gas Pipeline under Alternative
                           Regulatory Constraints”  
                        
                        
                        November 14, Daniel Tannenbaum (Becker Friedman Institute, Chicago), "Child Support Laws and Marital and Fertility Decisions Among Couples"
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      Spring, 2014 
                     
                     
                        
                        January 24, Joshua Foster (Arkansas), " Defense Against an Opportunistic Challenger "  
                        
                        
                        January 29, Ismail Baydur (Virginia), " Worker Selection, Hiring and Vacancies "  
                        
                        
                        January 31, Jamin Speer (Yale), " Pre-Market Skills, Occupational Choice, and Career Progression "  
                        
                        
                        February 3, Erik Hembre (Wisconsin), " HAMP, Home Attachment, and Mortgage Default "  
                        
                        
                        February 5, Joaquin Lopez (Chicago), " Entrepreneurship and Rent Seeking under Credit Constraints "  
                        
                        
                        February 7, Kolver Hernandez (Delaware), " The Transmission of U.S. Shocks to Emerging Markets "  
                        
                        
                        February 28, Bill Gavin (St. Louis Fed), " Global Dynamics at the Zero Lower Bound "  
                        
                        
                        March 28, Aleksandr Yankelevich (FCC), "Collaborate or Consolidate: Assessing the Competitive Effects of Production Joint
                           Ventures"  
                        
                        
                        May 9, Joaquin Lopez (Chicago), "Knowledge Creation and Growth in a Rent Seeking Economy"2:00 p.m., room 263
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Fall, 2013 
                     
                     
                        
                        August 23, Kayhan Koleyni (Memphis) " The Impact of the U.S. Financial Crisis on Mexico: Saved by the Float "  
                        
                        
                        August 30, Michael Jetter (Universidad EAFIT) " The Determinants of U.N. Interventions – Are There Regional Preferences?"   
                        
                        October 4, Kyle Carson (Cal Tech),   " Fear Itself: The Effects of Distressing Economic News on Birth Outcomes "  
                        
                        
                        October 25, Jarrod Hunt (Houston) "Debt, Default, and Disaggregation"  
                        
                        
                        November 8, Evžen Kočenda (Charles University) " Incomplete Specialization and Trade in Parts and Components "  
                        
                        
                        November 15, Xiaohui You (Memphis) " Determinants of Healthcare Expenditures in Australia: Testing the Revised Newhouse
                              Conjecture on Technological Change Effects "  
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                        
                           
                              
                              About
                              Programs
                              Faculty
                              Research
                              News
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Undergraduate Programs
                              Learn about our undergraduate offerings!
                           
                           
                              Seminars
                              Keep up with the latest Economic academic research in our upcoming seminars. 
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us!
                           
                           
                              Return to FCBE
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 8/29/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/economics/research/seminars.php
