http://www.memphis.edu/athletics/givenow/mclub.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Tiger Athletics
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Give Now
                        About
                        Calendar
                        Tickets
                        Facilities
                        GoTigersGo.com
                     
                     
                        
                           Give Now
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Ways To Give
                                       
                                       M Club
                                       
                                       Tiger Scholarship Fund
                                       
                                       Time To Shine Campaign
                                       
                                       True Blue Society
                                    
                                 
                                 Upcoming Events
                                 Meet the Staff
                                 FAQs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Athletics
                              	
                        
                              	Give Now
                              	
                        M Club
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     M Club
                     
                     An Elite Letter Winner Association, the M Club supports Tiger Athletics by uniting
                        past, present and future student-athletes through service, programs and events. Membership
                        is $50 annually and is open to anyone who has lettered in a sport at the University
                        of Memphis. In addition, the M Club offers mentoring opportunities for current student-athletes
                        and scholarships for former letter winners who are interested in returning to school
                        and finishing their degrees.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Membership eligibility is based on any person having lettered in a varsity sport or
                        support activity (equipment manager or trainer) at the University of Memphis. There
                        are three types of membership:
                     
                     
                     Lettering in a varsity sport Lettering in a varsity sport and paying yearly dues which brings privileges to the
                        individuals not available to non-dues playing members. Honorary membership.
                     
                     
                     Honorary membership may be bestowed upon an individual who has coached, been an athletic
                        administrator, or has had national prominence in a sport not sponsored by the Athletic
                        Department and must be nominated and voted on by the Board of Directors.
                     
                     
                     As the M Club Executive Director, I spend a lot of time answering questions about
                        the M Club from members and current student-athletes. I know board members and members
                        alike get similar questions. In order to alleviate the inconsistencies from word-of-mouth,
                        we have decided to create a top ten list of the most frequently asked questions about
                        the M Club.
                     
                     
                     What is the M Club? The M Club is the athletic alumni of the University of Memphis. It was started in
                        1973 by several former football players with Percy Roberts (current board member)
                        acting as the first president. Currently, the M Club currently has a database of over
                        2,500 members with an all-time high of about 450 active members.
                     
                     
                     What is the mission of the M Club? The M Club is dedicated to establishing an elite letter-winners' association by supporting
                        Tiger Athletics and building a lasting tradition for all letter-winners by uniting
                        past, present, and future student-athletes through service, programs and camaraderie.
                     
                     
                     How do you become a member of the M Club? As soon as any athlete letters in a sport (determined by his/her coaching staff),
                        they are automatically a member of the M Club. There are three types of membership
                        in the M Club, which include:
                     
                     
                     Member – Lettering in a varsity sport automatically entitles membership Active member – Lettering in a varsity sport and paying yearly dues. Active membership
                        guarantees privileges to the individuals not available to non-paying members Honorary member – May be bestowed upon an individual who has coached, has been an
                        athletic administrator, or has had national prominence in a sport not sponsored by
                        the Athletic Department. These persons must be nominated and voted on by the Board
                        of Directors, receiving a majority vote with a quorum of 2/3 the active board present.
                     
                     
                     Who is eligible to be a member of the M Club? Every letter winner from any of the 19 varsity sports, managers, trainers, cheerleaders,
                        and the dance team (pom pon) are members of the M Club.
                     
                     
                     What are the benefits of membership?
                     
                     Game Day Perks:
                     
                     Complimentary admission to a catered pre-game hospitality tent at all home Football
                        games and selected Men's Basketball games. Complimentary tickets to select Football games Complimentary admission to all Olympic and Women's sports (excludes Men's and Women's
                        Basketball) Preferred parking for home Football games
                     
                     
                     Additional benefits:
                     
                     Preferred seating for Men's Basketball and Football season ticket holders Per-seat donation discount for Men's basketball season tickets Discounts on books and merchandise at Tiger Book Store Discounts on merchandise at Tiger Gift Shop Hall of Fame voting privileges Opportunity to purchase exclusive M Club Apparel and Merchandise Complimentary membership (2-years) for student-athletes upon completing eligibility Mentorship for current and former student-athletes
                     
                     
                     Is there a governing body of the M Club? Yes, the governing body of the M Club is the volunteer Board of Directors. However,
                        the Executive Director is a full-time employee of the University of Memphis' Athletic
                        Department and is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the M Club.
                     
                     
                     How do you become a member of the Board of Directors? Annually, prior to executive officer rotations, a nominating committee existing of
                        the Executive Officers and Executive Director will present names of prospective board
                        members for the board's approval. According to the current language of the M Club
                        Constitution and Bylaws, the Board of Directors must consist of a minimum of 30 and
                        a maximum of 35 members. If anyone is interested in becoming a board member, he/she
                        can tell a current board member or contact the M Club Director.
                     
                     
                     What are some of the other events the M Club has besides football hospitality?
                     
                     M Club Hall of Fame Banquet – annual celebration where the M Club inducts former letter
                        winners and athletic supporters into its Hall of Fame Clash of the Tigers Golf Classic – annual golf tournament that is filled with fun,
                        food and prizes - prior to first home football game M Club All-Sport Reunion – Event that will reunite all former letter winners for a
                        weekend of camaraderie, information, food and fun!
                     
                     
                     What happens to the money raised by the M Club including dues and event revenue? Currently the dues and all event revenue go to support the general athletic department
                        budget. However, any donation to the M Club goes directly to the M Club restricted
                        account, which can only be utilized by the M Club with approval of the board of directors.
                     
                     
                     How can I become an active member of the M Club today? You can become an active M Club member by contacting the M Club Executive Director,
                        Bob Winn at 901-678-4878 or email bwinn@memphis.edu.
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Give Now
                        
                           
                              
                              Ways To Give
                                    
                                    M Club
                                    
                                    Tiger Scholarship Fund
                                    
                                    Time To Shine Campaign
                                    
                                    True Blue Society
                                 
                              
                              Upcoming Events
                              Meet the Staff
                              FAQs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              GoTigersGo.com
                              Your home for Tiger Sports
                           
                           
                              Student Tickets
                              Information on obtaining student and guest tickets to the games
                           
                           
                              Support Tiger Athletics
                              Make a gift. Make a difference.
                           
                           
                              Prospective Student-Athletes
                              Do you have what it takes to be a Tiger?
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/27/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/athletics/givenow/mclub.php
