http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/lson/admission.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Undergraduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Admissions
                        College/Degree Programs
                        Planning
                        Faculty/Staff
                        Archives
                     
                     
                        
                           College Programs
                           
                              
                                 
                                 College of Arts and Sciences
                                 Fogelman College of Business and Economics
                                 College of Communication and Fine Arts
                                 College of Education
                                 School of Health Studies
                                 Herff College of Engineering
                                 School of Communication Sciences and Disorders
                                 Loewenberg College of Nursing
                                 University College
                                 Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management
                                 Independent Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	UGCatalog
                              	
                        
                              	College Programs
                              	
                        Admission
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Admission
                     
                     The Loewenberg College of Nursing is organized as one unit under the leadership of
                        a dean. Programs are offered at both the Memphis and Lambuth (Jackson, TN) campuses.
                        The curriculum leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Nursing includes general
                        education and support courses offered through other units of the university as well
                        as the major requirements offered by the school. A comprehensive approach to health
                        care is emphasized through utilization of a wide variety of health care settings available
                        in Memphis and Jackson, and their surrounding communities.
                     
                     
                     The faculty of the Loewenberg College of Nursing represents all clinical areas of
                        nursing practice and a variety of experiences and interests. They reflect this diversity
                        in their teaching, practice and research and are qualified by practical experience
                        as well as by academic credentials, to function as facilitators of learning.
                     
                     
                     The Loewenberg College of Nursing holds membership in the American Association of
                        Colleges of Nursing, Southern Council for Collegiate Education in Nursing, and the
                        National League for Nursing Council for Baccalaureate and Higher Degree Programs.
                        All nursing programs are fully accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing
                        Education, One Dupont Circle NW, Suite 530, Washington, DC 20036-1120, (202) 887-6791
                        and approved by the Tennessee Board of Nursing.
                     
                     
                     Admission
                     
                     Because the University of Memphis seeks to provide in as much as possible a reasonably
                        safe environment for its health career students and their patients, students may be
                        required during the course of the program to demonstrate their physical and/or emotional
                        fitness to meet the essential requirements of the program. Such essential requirements
                        include freedom from communicable diseases, the ability to perform certain physical
                        tasks, and suitable emotional fitness. Any appraisal measures used to determine such
                        physical and/or emotional fitness will be in compliance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation
                        Act of 1973 and the American with Disabilities Act of 1990, so as not to discriminate
                        against any individual on the basis of disability. See specific criteria under Sophomore
                        Admission.
                     
                     
                     Core performance standards for admission and progression:
                     
                     
                        
                        Critical thinking ability sufficient for clinical judgment.
                        
                        Interpersonal abilities sufficient to interact with individuals, families, and groups
                           from a variety of social, emotional, cultural, and intellectual backgrounds.
                        
                        
                        Communication abilities sufficient for interaction with others in verbal and written
                           form.
                        
                        
                        Physical abilities sufficient to move from room to room and maneuver in small spaces.
                        
                        Gross and fine motor abilities sufficient to provide safe and effective nursing care.
                        
                        Auditory ability sufficient to monitor and assess health needs.
                        
                        Visual ability sufficient for observation and assessment necessary in nursing care.
                        
                        Tactile ability sufficient for physical assessment.
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     Admission
                     
                     Freshman Admission
                     
                     High School students may apply in their senior year to the Loewenberg College of Nursing.
                        Applicants who meet the following criteria are admitted to the BSN program in the
                        2nd semester of the sophomore year providing fulfillment of all BSN admission criteria.
                     
                     
                     Freshman admission requirements:
                     
                     1. Admission to the UofM as a pre-nursing major undergraduate student for the current
                        application term.
                     
                     
                     2. Submission of a completed online application to the Loewenberg College of Nursing
                        (LCON) prior to the published deadline.
                     
                     
                     3. Completion of high school Algebra I, II, Geometry, Biology, and Chemistry.
                     
                     4. Minimum ACT score of 23 with a minimum score of 21 in all areas.      5. Graduation from an accredited high school with a cumulative grade point average
                        of 3.0.
                     
                     
                     BSN Admission Requirements and Criteria
                     
                     1. Admission to the UofM as a degree seeking undergraduate student for the current
                        application term.
                     
                     
                     2. Submission of a completed online application to the Loewenberg College of Nursing
                        (LCON) prior to the published deadline.
                     
                     
                     3. Achievement of a minimum college cumulative GPA of 2.7 at the time of application.
                     
                     4. Completion of general education requirements prior to enrollment is strongly advised;
                        applicants may have no more than 6 general education credit hours to be completed.
                     
                     
                     5. Completion of all prerequisite courses prior to enrollment; a minimum grade of
                        "C" must be earned. Prerequisite courses include:
                     
                     
                     -English Comp I & II, Intro Sociology or General Psychology, Math 1420, 1530, 1710,
                        1730, 1830, or 1910 and Nutrition; 
                     
                     
                     -Anatomy & Physiology I (with lab), Anatomy & Physiology II (with lab), and Microbiology
                        (with lab).
                     
                     
                     6. Accelerated BSN admission criteria include a baccalaureate degree and completion of Math 1530 or
                        equivalent.
                     
                     
                     7. Completion of two of three (2 of 3) prerequisite science courses at the time of
                        application and all three prior to enrollment. Science courses include: Anatomy &
                        Physiology I (with lab), Anatomy & Physiology II (with lab), and Microbiology (with
                        lab).
                     
                     
                          a.Applicants are required to complete prerequisite science courses seven (7)
                        years of LCON admission earning a minimum combined GPA of 2.66.
                     
                     
                          b.One (1) science course may be repeated one time only; the second earned letter
                        grade of the repeated course will be used in the science GPA calculation. The first
                        letter grade for the remaining two (2) science courses will be used in the science
                        GPA calculation.
                     
                     
                          c. Students with two (2) or more science courses in-progress at the time of application
                        will be considered for admission with completion of two (2) college general science
                        courses (for science majors) earning a grade of "C" or better on the first attempt.
                        The highest 1st attempt course grades will be used in the science GPA calculation.
                     
                     
                          d. Preference will be given to those students who completed all science pre-
                        requisites and meet the required GPA at the time of application.
                     
                     
                     8. Clearance of all high school deficiencies.
                     
                     9. Applicants transferring from or previously enrolled in another nursing program
                        must submit a letter of good standing or support from the dean/director of the previous
                        nursing program, along with an official transcript, and meet LCON admission and progression
                        standards as stated in the Undergraduate Catalog. Students earning a grade of D or
                        F for one or more nursing courses within five (5) years of application are not eligible
                        for admission.
                     
                     
                     10. Have a minimum TOEFL score of 173 computer-based, 61 Internet-based, or 500 paper-pencil,
                        or a minimum IELTS score of 5.0 (for students for whom English is a second language).
                     
                     
                     RN-BSN Admission Requirements and Criteria
                     
                     1. Be admitted to the University of Memphis as a degree-seeking undergraduate student.
                     
                     2. Submission of a completed online application to the Loewenberg College of Nursing
                        (LCON) prior to the published deadline.
                     
                     
                     3. Have a minimum college cumulative grade point average of 2.5, a cumulative grade
                        point average of 2.00 in prerequisite science courses. 
                     
                     
                     4. Completion of prerequisite courses with a minimum grade of "C" or better. Prerequisite
                        courses include:
                     
                     
                     - English Comp I & II, Intro Sociology or General Psychology, Math 1420,1530, 1710,
                        1730, 1830, or 1910 and Nutrition, Anatomy & Physiology I (with lab), Anatomy & Physiology
                        II (with lab), and Microbiology (with lab).
                     
                     
                     5. Prerequisite science courses completed later than seven (7) years of LCON admission
                        may be accepted with validation from current healthcare employer. 
                     
                     
                     6. Hold an unencumbered, active RN license.
                     
                     BSN Admission Selection Process
                     
                     1. All students admitted to LCON as freshmen who meet the BSN admission criteria by
                        the second semester of the sophomore year matriculate in the nursing program. 
                     
                     
                     2. After freshmen nursing majors have been selected, all other BSN applicants are
                        considered on a competitive space available basis for the Memphis and Lambuth campuses.
                     
                     
                     3.For each campus, applicants are rank-ordered by cumulative GPA (40%), weighted Science
                        GPA (40%), and weighted Math grade (20%).
                     
                     
                          a. A minimum of two science courses are used to calculate the Science GPA; general
                        science grades (for science majors) are used if two or more science prerequisites
                        are in-progress. The highest weight is applied to the Science GPA derived from all
                        three prerequisite science courses. The lowest weight is applied to the Science GPA
                        derived from two general science courses (for science majors).  Consideration will
                        be given to those students who completed all science pre- requisites and meet the
                        required GPA at the time of application.
                     
                     
                          b. For students who complete more than one math course, the higher course grade
                        is used to calculate the weighted Math grade. The highest weight is applied to the
                        Math 1530, 1710, 1730, 1830, or 1910 course grade. A lower weight is applied to the
                        Math 1420 course grade.
                     
                     
                     4. An alternate list may be established each semester to fill vacancies that might
                        occur before the beginning of class. The rank order for the alternate list is applied
                        similarly to the acceptance list. 5. Students who are not accepted must reapply to be considered for another admission
                        cycle. 
                     
                     
                     6. Freshman admission students must have complete files by May 1.
                     
                     7. Sophomore and Accelerated BSN students must have complete files by the deadline
                        (February 15 for Fall; October 1 for Spring) to be considered.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        College Programs
                        
                           
                              
                              College of Arts and Sciences
                              Fogelman College of Business and Economics
                              College of Communication and Fine Arts
                              College of Education
                              School of Health Studies
                              Herff College of Engineering
                              School of Communication Sciences and Disorders
                              Loewenberg College of Nursing
                              University College
                              Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management
                              Independent Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Course Descriptions
                              
                           
                           
                              Services to Students
                              The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students.
                           
                           
                              Calendar 2015-2016
                              The University of Memphis Academic Calendar
                           
                           
                              Academic Regulations
                              You have a right!
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 7/28/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/lson/admission.php
