http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/communication/enews_sept16.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Parent & Family Services
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Events
                        Communication
                        Resources
                        Get Involved
                        Give Back
                        Visit UofM
                     
                     
                        
                           Communication
                           
                              
                                 
                                 UMparent E-news
                                 Prospective Parent E-news
                                 Parent Chats
                                 Tiger Text
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Parent & Family Services
                              	
                        
                              	Communication
                              	
                        enews_sept16
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Parent & Family News: September 2016 Edition 
                     
                     This time of year, students begin experiencing exciting and challenging situations
                        that they need to learn to handle on their own. As a parent, try to avoid rushing
                        in; instead, think of the college experience as your student's job. Offer support,
                        answer questions and point them toward the right resources. Parents should use the
                        opportunity to help their student become more independent.
                     
                     
                     What Parents Can Do...
                     
                     
                        
                        Encourage your student to ask for help when needed.
                        
                        With mid-terms approaching, make sure your student sets time aside to study. Remind
                           your student about free tutoring services offered by the U of M's Educational Support Program.
                        
                        Students who consider dropping classes should remember their financial aid and scholarship
                           status (including HOPE) may be affected.
                        
                        
                        Remind your student to see his or her advisor before spring registration which will begin November 14.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Connect with Parent and Family Services via Social Media
                     
                     Facebook : @UofMparents Twitter: @UMparents Instagram: @UMparents
                     
                     IN THIS ISSUE
                     
                     Calendar & Dates For Parents... Essential Services Student Services University News Athletics Fun Fact & Quote
                     
                     Top
                     
                      CALENDAR & DATES
                     
                     
                     To stay up to date on all upcoming dates and deadlines, please check out our UMparent calendar .
                     
                     
                     September 27: Tiger Blue Goes Green , Student Plaza, 10 am-2 pm
                     
                     
                     September 28: Student Health Fair, Student Plaza, 10 am-2 pm
                     
                     September 30: 1st Installment Fee Payment Deadline
                     
                     October 1: Football @ Ole Miss, 6:00pm, Watch at the Liberty Bowl
                     
                     October 6: Football vs Temple, Liberty Bowl, 7:00pm
                     
                     October 8-11: Fall Break
                     
                     Top
                     
                      FOR PARENTS....
                     
                     
                     Finals Care Packages
                     
                     Surprise and support your student during finals with a care package from Parent &
                        Family Services and Residence Life! Packages will include a University of Memphis
                        memorabilia item, snacks, spirit items and more to help them through finals. Packages
                        can be delivered to students at the Main and Lambuth Campuses. Be on the lookout for
                        order information soon! 
                     
                     
                     Submit Your Student's FAFSA Beginning October 1st
                     
                     Why is this important?
                     
                     Students and parents have had to traditionally wait until January to apply for federal
                        student aid. The change will allow for the FAFSA process to align with the college
                        application calendar and remove barriers for students trying to meet priority filing
                        deadlines.
                     
                     
                     What does this mean for you?
                     
                     Review the deadlines below to ensure submission is completed prior to those dates.
                        Please remember students should submit the FAFSA early for priority consideration.
                        The University of Memphis' federal school code is 003509.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Tennessee Student Assistance Grant FAFSA Deadline: January 17, 2017
                        
                        Tennessee Hope Lottery Scholarship FAFSA Deadline: September 1, 2017
                        
                     
                     
                     Next Steps:
                     
                     
                        
                         Complete the FAFSA starting in early October at fafsa.gov . Please remember to apply as early as possible for priority consideration as it relates
                           to state programs.
                        
                        
                        Encourage your student to monitor their myMemphis portal and check their email for
                           updates related to their FAFSA application.
                        
                        
                        Assist your student in submiting any additional required documentation if requested.
                        
                        Have your studnet contact the office at financialaid@memphis.edu or visit in 103 Wilder Tower if they have questions
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Parent & Family Weekend
                     
                     Thank you to all the parents, family members and guests who joined us for Parent &
                        Family Weekend, September 16-18. We hope you had a wonderful time! Check out the photos from some of the events.  
                     
                     
                     Alumni Association
                     
                     Tigers @ Ole Miss Watch Party ON the Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium Field  sponsored by the UofM Alumni Association
                     
                     
                     Saturday, October 1, 5:00-9:00 pm, Kickoff 6:00 pm Can't make it to the big game?
                        Take the field like the Tigers! Bring a chair or picnic blanket and cheer on our Tigers
                        against Ole Miss ON the Liberty Bowl Field! Outside food and beverages are not permitted
                        (no coolers allowed), but some of the city's best food trucks will be there to provide
                        gameday grub! Don't forget to wear Tiger Blue! Learn more here!
                     
                     Tiger Tailgates
                     
                     Join the Alumni Association, 901 Club and M Club at the Pipkin Building on Tiger Lane
                        before each Memphis Tigers Home Football Game! Includes BBQ and all the fixins. $8
                        for members. $10 for non-members. See the complete schedule here!
                     
                     Homecoming 2016 Annual Parade & Pep Rally
                     
                     Friday, October 28, 5:30 pm, UofM Campus Immediately following the Parade, join us
                        at the Student Plaza for a True Blue Pep Rally. For more information, contact alumniassociation@memphis.edu or 901.678.2586.
                     
                     
                     Paint the Campus Blue
                     
                     Thursday, October 27, 5:00 pm, Fountain Plaza, UofM Campus Celebrate Homecoming week
                        and paint the campus blue! Join us for a costume contest and bring out your artistic
                        side to sidewalk chalk campus and get campus ready for Homecoming. For more information,
                        contact a.mizell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119.
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                      Essential Services
                     
                     
                     Bursar's Office
                     
                     Fall semester classes have officially begun, and we welcome our new and returning
                        students and parents!
                     
                     
                     Installment Payment Plan (IPP) for fall 2016 Semester:
                     
                     
                        
                        September 30 1st Installment Fee Payment Deadline (4:30 p.m.) to avoid a $25 Late Payment Fee for students enrolled in the Installment
                           Payment Plan.
                        
                        
                        October 30 2nd Installment Fee Payment Deadline to avoid a $25 Late Payment Fee for students enrolled in the Installment Payment
                           Plan.  Note: October 30 falls on a Sunday this year. In-person payments are due by 4:30pm
                              on 10/28/16. TigerXpress payments are due 10/30/16.
                        
                        November 30 3rd Installment Fee Payment Deadline to avoid a $25 Late Payment Fee for students enrolled in the Installment Payment
                           Plan.
                           
                           
                              
                               Fees may be paid by credit card or eCheck online on TigerXpress.
                              
                              If you are an authorized user, you can access your student's account to view/pay fees
                                 through the Parent/Authorized User Access Information log in on our website.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Upcoming 2nd Session Fee Payment Deadline:
                     
                     October 11 2nd POT and TN eCampus R25 (2nd RODP) Fee Payment Deadline (4:30 p.m.) to avoid DELETION of classes for students who are ONLY registered for any 2nd POT or 2nd RODP-RA2 and
                        registered between September 3 – October 11, 2016.
                     
                     
                     Please visit the Calendar on our web site for additional important dates and deadlines for your student.
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Registrar's Office
                     
                     Summer 2016 Incompletes
                     
                     Any undergraduate student who received an I grade (Incomplete) in a Summer 2016 course
                        has until September 20 to satisfy the instructor's course requirements. If the work
                        is not completed by this date, the "I" will be changed to "F."
                     
                     
                     Fall Break
                     
                     Fall Break, October 8-11, is the next major registration calendar event. Shortly after
                        the break, Spring 2017 class offerings will be available on myMemphis and the Spring
                        2017 Dates and Deadlines calendar will be available on the Registrar's website.
                     
                     
                     When the break arrives, you may want to ask your student questions such as, "What
                        do you think you will take next term?" and "Have you made an advising appointment?"
                        Spring registration opens November 14 .
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                      STUDENT SERVICES
                     
                     
                     Tiger Blue Goes Green
                     
                     Under the theme "Sustainable Moves," the University of Memphis will host its annual
                        Tiger Blue Goes Green Day on Tuesday, September 27 from 10:00 am to 2:00 pm on the Student Plaza . The event is free and open to the public.
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Discover Your Major Day
                     
                     Thursday, September 29, 9:00 am-2:00 pm, UC Ballroom
                     
                     Over 50 academic departments will be available to discuss majors, minors, and other
                        opportunities. Whether your students are still deciding on a major, questioning their
                        major, wanting to confirm they are in the right major, looking for more information
                        about their major, or thinking about a minor, this event is for them!
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Student Health Fair 2016
                     
                     Wednesday, September 28, 2016, Activities Plaza, 10:00 am-2:00 pm
                     
                     The Student Health Fair acquaints all Students, Faculty and Staff with the resources
                        available on campus, and in Memphis, to help maintain and/or improve their physical,
                        psychological, spiritual, and financial health and wellness. There will be diverse
                        programs from On-Campus and from the Memphis community which will relate to the health
                        and wellbeing.
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     CAREER SERVICES
                     
                     Fall Parent Update from Career Services
                     
                     Whether your student is a first-time freshman or graduating senior, Career Services
                        is here to help them progress through the career development process. Encourage your
                        student to take full advantage of the resources available through our office, located
                        in 400 Wilder Tower.
                     
                     
                     One of our most requested services is individual appointments with Career Services
                        staff members. Appointment topics include choosing or changing a major, resume and
                        cover letter development, interview skills practice, job search strategies, and graduate
                        school application preparation. Students may schedule appointments through the TigerLink
                        system or by calling (901) 678-2239.
                     
                     
                     Encourage your student to login to the new TigerLink career management system . Currently enrolled students may access TigerLink with the same username and password used for MyMemphis and University of Memphis
                        email.
                     
                     
                     The TigerLink system provides job and internship listings, online resume and cover
                        letter critique tools, online interview preparation, and online appointment scheduling. 
                     
                     
                     Career Services is also available at the University of Memphis Lambuth Campus. Call
                        (731) 425-7398 for more information on the programs and services available there.
                        Whether in Memphis or Jackson, our staff looks forward to working with your student
                        during the fall 2016 semester.
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Tiger Dining
                     
                     Tiger Dining 35 Meal Plan For a limited time only, we're offering a mid-semester 35 Plan for only $275! The
                        35 meal plan provides a smaller amount of meals at a great value to help your student
                        get through the semester. Use meals at Tiger Den for all-you-care-to-eat or request
                        a to-go box! Sign up online .
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                      UNIVERSITY NEWS
                     
                     
                     Emerging Innovation Series . Every month the FedEx Institute of Technology invites a leading innovator in emerging
                        technologies to speak about what they are most excited about. Featuring researchers,
                        local leaders, nationally-recognized innovators, and business luminaries, this series
                        is designed to encourage conversation and engage the Memphis community. All talks
                        are free and open to the public. Read more...
                     
                     Strategic Planning Process Update from President Rudd:  The University of Memphis will soon have its own Board of Trustees, marking a critical
                        step forward in a very proud history. In anticipation of this transition, we will
                        initiate a new strategic planning effort involving our entire campus community. As
                        you know, our strategic planning efforts have been driven by the Tennessee Board of
                        Regents to date. Current and future infrastructure investments, both on campus and
                        in our neighborhood district, have us well positioned for the next decade and beyond.
                        Our transition to an independent Board of Trustees provides a unique opportunity to
                        continue our very positive trajectory. We have never been in a better position to
                        continue to grow in quality and impact, both local and nationally. This coming legislative
                        session we will be pursuing an agenda to move the UofM from a Carnegie II to a Carnegie
                        I institution, advancing our efforts to establish the University of Memphis as a national
                        research university.
                     
                     
                     In the coming months, we will be sharing more details and materials about the strategic
                        planning process, UofM 2027, that will help guide our University community for the
                        next decade. We need to engage every corner of our University community, including
                        students, staff, faculty and alumni.
                     
                     
                      ATHLETICS
                     
                     
                     Click here for all athletic sport schedules. Make sure you have your ticket! Click here to purchase tickets!
                     
                     
                     Football:  Miller Named to American Weekly Honor Roll. Read more...
                     
                     Volleyball:  Tigers Volleyball Wins UAB Invitational Title. Read more...
                     
                     Top
                     
                      FUN FACT & QUOTE
                     
                     
                     Fun Fact : Check out UofM's Fall 2016 Magazine here.  
                     
                     
                     Quote: "A teacher affects eternity; he can never tell where his influence stops."
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Communication
                        
                           
                              
                              UMparent E-news
                              Prospective Parent E-news
                              Parent Chats
                              Tiger Text
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Got questions, comments, or concerns?  We're here to help!
                           
                           
                              Parent & Family E-news
                              Stay in touch electronically by subscribing to our E-News.
                           
                           
                              Parent & Family Handbook
                              Learn about opportunities and services available to students.
                           
                           
                              In the Now
                              What you need to know this month to help you help your student
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/26/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/communication/enews_sept16.php
