http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/communication/enews_aug16.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Parent & Family Services
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Events
                        Communication
                        Resources
                        Get Involved
                        Give Back
                        Visit UofM
                     
                     
                        
                           Communication
                           
                              
                                 
                                 UMparent E-news
                                 Prospective Parent E-news
                                 Parent Chats
                                 Tiger Text
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Parent & Family Services
                              	
                        
                              	Communication
                              	
                        Parent E-News: August Edition
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     A NEW YEAR....
                     
                     August is a very important time of the year. Students should take time to settle into
                        their new classes and make sure they get the books and supplies they need to succeed
                        during this semester in college.
                     
                     
                     College students experience much greater freedom than in high school. However, they
                        are also held more accountable for their actions and decisions. Rarely does a professor
                        ask twice for assignments or question absences. With an increased opportunity for
                        distractions, time management becomes more important. Encourage your student to be
                        responsible for his or her education. There is no better time than now to get your
                        student off to a good start.
                     
                     
                     What Parents Can Do...
                     
                     
                        
                        Encourage your student to always go to class, and to use a day planner to keep up
                           with assignments. Students can get a free planner at the beginning of each semester
                           with their student ID in the University Center.
                        
                        
                        Remind them that attending study groups can be a fun and interactive way to get prepared.
                        
                        Let your student know that professors are available during their office hours, and
                           they are there to help.
                        
                        
                        If your student lives away from home, be understanding when he or she feels overwhelmed
                           or homesick. Encourage your student to spend a month or more acclimating to college
                           before returning home for the weekend.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Connect with Parent & Family Services via Social Media
                     
                     Facebook: @UofMparents Twitter: @UMparents Instagram: @UMparents
                     
                     In this Issue
                     
                     Dates & Deadlines For Parents Essential Services Student Services Get Involved! University News Athletics Fun Fact & Quote
                     
                      Dates & Deadlines
                     
                     
                     To stay up to date on all upcoming dates and deadlines, please check out our Parent & Family e-calendar .
                     
                     
                     August 18-20: Residence Hall Move In
                     
                     August 19: Fee Payment Deadline, 4:30 pm (All registered courses will be DELETED if not paid In full or signed up/paid on
                        the Installment Payment Plan (IPP) by the Fee Payment Deadline)
                     
                     
                     August 19: Last Day of Regular Registration
                     
                     
                     August 20-25: Late Registration Period
                     
                     
                     August 22: First Day of Classes, Fall 2016
                     
                     
                     August 22: New Student Convocation, Rose Theatre, 2:30 pm
                     
                     
                     August 25: Last Day to Add/Change Classes
                     
                     
                     August 25:  Lambuth New Student Convocation, 11:15 am, Jack Morris Ballroom
                     
                     
                     September 1 : FAFSA Deadline for Fall 2016 & Hope
                     
                     
                     September 5: Labor Day (University Closed)
                     
                     
                     September 7: Last Day to Drop Class for No Grade
                     
                     
                     September 6-11: Panhellenic Recruitment
                     
                      For Parents
                     
                     
                     Join us for Parent & Family Weekend, September 16-18!
                     
                     Parent & Family Weekend, September 16-18, is less than 2 months away! Whether you
                        are a local or from outside the Mid-South, Parent and Family Weekend is a wonderful
                        time to see your student, visit campus and get to experience life as a Tiger! You
                        will have the opportunity to meet other Tiger families, faculty and University administrators.
                     
                     
                     The schedule for the weekend is now available online . Events will be continue to be added.
                     
                     
                     Click here to register.   Register by August 21 to be entered to win a basketball autographed by Men's Basketball
                           Head Coach, Tubby Smith or a football autographed by Football Head Coach, Mike Norvell.
                     
                     Get your 2016-2017 Parent & Family Calendar
                     
                     
                     
                     Purchase your 2016-2017 Parent & Family Calendar today! The calendar is filled with
                        the dates, deadlines and information to help you help your student over the next year.  Click here to purchase.
                     
                      Parents of the Class of 2020!
                     
                     
                     Hopefully by now you've become familiar with our Complete to Compete initiative which
                        was shared with many of you during New Student Orientation (NSO). We hope you found
                        the session valuable and will continue to use Complete to Compete as a guide for your
                        students' college experience. For those who missed out on our session at NSO, Complete
                        to Compete is an initiative dedicated to graduating students in 4 years or less. For
                        example, please keep the following in mind as your student finalizes their schedule
                        for the coming academic year:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        To be a member of the Class of 2020 your student needs to complete 30 credits/year
                           (generally 15/term).
                        
                        
                        Students who attempt 30 hours a year graduate a full 3 semesters earlier than those
                           who take 26 hours a year (that's a savings of at least $12,000 in tuition!).
                        
                        
                        Completing 30 hours as a freshman almost doubles your student's likelihood to graduate.
                        
                        Credits 13, 14, & 15 only cost about $180 compared to $1,200+ if taken as part of
                           a 12-hour load.
                        
                        
                        National Research published in Forbes Magazine shows that the cost to students who
                           graduate in 6 years is about $200,000 more in expenses and lost earnings as compared
                           to those who finish in 4 years. Time is money.
                        
                        
                        5 classes a semester leaves plenty of time for involvement on campus and student engagement.
                        
                     
                     
                     For additional information on the Complete to Compete initiative email C2C@memphis.edu
                        or call 901-678-3170.
                     
                     
                     Pouncer Pals
                     
                     Calling all Tiger Cubs: Children 12 years of age and under are invited to join Pouncer's
                        Pals! When they join, they get a special t-shirt and get to attend fun events with
                        Pouncer! Walk around the football field with Pouncer on Saturday, September 24, before
                        the Memphis Tigers take on the Bowling Green Falcons! Click here for more information and to join today. 
                     
                     
                      ESSENTIAL SERVICES
                     
                     
                     Registrar
                     
                     Fall 2016 Reminders: Fall registration has been open for all degree-seeking students
                        since April 4. Refer to the Fall 2016 calendar for important Dates and Deadlines . Please remind your students that they must be advised before they can register;
                        the registration system will not allow a degree-seeking student to register if he
                        or she has not been cleared by an advisor.
                     
                     
                     The last day of regular registration is Friday, August 19. Students who register after
                        this date will be subject to late registration and late payment fees. Encourage your
                        students to print and review their class schedules before their first day of classes.
                        Building and room assignments are sometimes changed at the last minute. Also, some
                        students mistakenly sign up for course sections not realizing that they are being
                        offered at remote locations (Millington, Collierville, our Lambuth Campus in Jackson,
                        etc.) rather than the main campus. Let's make sure that everyone is where they are
                        supposed to be.
                     
                     
                     Bursar
                     
                     Fall Fee Payment Deadline is Friday, August 19, 2016 by 4:30 pm.
                     
                     Do not let your student lose their classes by missing the fee payment deadline.
                     
                     Students who register for classes through Friday, August 19 must satisfy fee payment
                        requirements by the fee payment deadline to avoid deletion of their registered classes.
                        For additional Fee Payment Deadline Information, please visit the Bursar's Undergraduate/Graduate fall calendar.
                     
                     Please note that unless your student's financial aid, scholarship and/or sponsorship
                        covers 100% of their enrollment fees, remaining fees MUST be paid in full or through
                        the Installment Payment Plan (IPP) by the fee payment deadline. To take advantage of the NEW IPP , students may pay a minimum 25% of the remaining balance and sign up for the Installment
                        Payment Plan (IPP) on TigerXpress .
                     
                     
                     Financial Aid and Scholarships
                     
                     eRefunds will begin to post to the students' bank accounts beginning August 19, 2016. Students
                        who did not sign up for eRefunds will have their refund check mailed to their local
                        address on file with the University beginning August 26, 2016.
                     
                     
                     Review additional information about financial aid/scholarship disbursements on the
                        Financial Aid Disbursement page .
                     
                     
                     Residence Life
                     
                     Fall 2016 Check-In: The residence halls will be open during the following hours for
                           check-in. Click here for full details.
                     
                     Thursday, August 18, 2016 1:00 – 4:30 pm
                     
                     The following learning communities...
                     
                     
                        
                        Emerging Leaders
                        
                        First Scholars
                        
                        First Generation
                        
                        Engineering/Architecture
                        
                        Pre-Health
                        
                        Honors Program Residents assigned to Living Learning Complex- Honors/Scholars Housing
                        
                     
                     
                     Friday, August 19, 2016 10 am – 12:00 pm (Noon)
                     
                     
                        
                        Residents of Rawls Hall
                        
                     
                     
                     Friday, August 19, 2016 and Saturday, August 20, 2016 1:00 – 4:30 pm
                     
                     
                        
                        All other residents
                        
                     
                     
                     Students who are not able to check-in by 4:30 PM on Saturday, August 20 should contact
                           the Residence Life and Dining Services Office at 901-678-2295 and be placed on the
                           Late Arrival List to avoid the forfeiture of their housing assignment and the charge
                           of a $200 cancellation fee.
                     
                     Fall 2016 Room Change: The Room Change period will be Thursday, August 25 and Friday, August 26 from 1:00
                           until 4:00 pm. Students will receive information regarding room change with they check-in.
                           Students are expected to occupy their Fall 2016 housing assignment until the official
                           paperwork has been completed during the room change period.
                     
                     Meningitis Vaccine Documentation: Tennessee State Law requires all students new to the University and living on campus
                           to be immunized against meningococcal disease before moving into the residence halls
                           or on campus housing. In order to properly comply with this regulation, you must get
                           the Meningitis vaccine and submit the appropriate documentation to the Student Health
                           Center. If you have questions, please contact the Student Health Center at 901-678-2287.
                           For more information, click here .
                     
                      Student Services
                     
                     
                     Career Services
                     
                     Whether your student is a first-time freshman or graduating senior, Career Services
                           is here to help them progress through the career development process. Encourage your
                           student to take full advantage of the resources available through our office, located
                           in 400 Wilder Tower.
                     
                     One of our most requested services is individual appointments with Career Services
                           staff members. Appointment topics include choosing or changing a major, resume and
                           cover letter development, interview skills practice, job search strategies, and graduate
                           school application preparation.
                     
                     Encourage your student to login to the TigerLink career management system. Currently enrolled students will use their MyMemphis username
                           and password to access TigerLink . 
                     
                     The TigerLink system provides job and internship listings, online resume and cover letter critique,
                           online mock interview preparation, and online appointment scheduling. 
                     
                     Career Services is also available at the University of Memphis Lambuth Campus. Call
                           731-425-7398 for more information on the programs and services available at Lambuth.
                           Whether in Memphis or Jackson, our staff looks forward to working with your student
                           as he or she returns to the U of M for fall semester!
                     
                     Campus Recreation Intramural Services
                     
                     CRIS invites all students to attend our free annual back-to-school event, Rec Fest, on Sunday, August 21 from 5 - 7 pm. at the Rec Center. This event features food, games, group fitness
                        class demos, a splash contest, a battleship game and a new log-rolling game in the
                        pool, and more! Please encourage your students to attend this fun event to relax before
                        classes begin the following day and to get acquainted with all the great facilities
                        and programs that we offer at the Rec Center! For more information, visit our website or call 901.678.2801.
                     
                     
                     Campus ID Cards
                     
                     Students can manage their Campus (ID) Card online 24/7.
                     
                     
                        
                        Deactivate their lost, misplaced, or stolen card to prevent unauthorized use
                        
                        Activate their found card
                        
                        View card balance(s) and meal plan (if applicable)
                        
                        Add additional funds to their card using a credit card
                        
                     
                     
                     The Campus Card Office is located in 115 Wilder Tower. A satellite office is located
                        at the Lambuth campus in 109 Varnell-Jones Hall. Offices are open 8:00-4:30, Monday
                        through Friday. They can be contacted at 901-678-CARD (2273) or at campuscard@memphis.edu.
                     
                     
                     Technology for your Student
                     
                     Looking for Microsoft Office for your student? Did you know Microsoft Office Suite
                        is available at no cost in PC and Mac platforms for your currently enrolled student?
                        The software includes Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and OneNote. Office is a great
                        tool for completing coursework and assignments.
                     
                     
                     Your student can download a copy of the software to their computer or laptop. To learn
                        more about downloading Microsoft Office, have your student visit the Office website .  
                     
                     
                     First South Financial's Tiger Banking Center = free checking for U of M students
                     
                     Students have enough on their minds – class schedules, assignment due dates, exams
                        – and that's why we offer FREE checking for UofM Students! This account has no minimum
                        balance requirements and no monthly service fee. It comes with a free Tiger Visa debit
                        card for easy access anytime, anywhere. We also offer online banking and mobile banking
                        with mobile deposit so your busy student can stay on top of his or her finances on
                        the go! And we have a banking center right on campus – just above the bookstore! Open
                        your account by September 30, 2016 and we'll deposit $25 into your Tiger Savings Account!*
                        Refer your friends and family members to First South Financial and get $25 when they
                        open an account with us!* To find out more, please call 901-380-7400, go online to
                        firstsouth.com or stop by any one of our banking centers .
                     
                     
                     University Eye Care
                     
                     University Eye Care, a full service optometry clinic operated on the University of
                        Memphis campus by Southern College of Optometry. Located just above the Tiger Book
                        Store in the V. Lane Rawlins Service Court, University Eye Care offers eye examinations,
                        contact lens, frames, and sunglasses. Most insurance plans are accepted, so students
                        may receive care through their parents' insurance plans. A number of eyecare pricing
                        packages are available for students. Click here , call (901) 252-3697 or email info@uofmeyecare.com for information or to make an
                        appointment
                     
                     
                      ENCOURAGE YOUR STUDENT TO GET INVOLVED!
                     
                     
                     New Student Convocation - August 22 at 2:30
                     
                     
                     New Student Convocation, also known as #TigerTraining is an opportunity for new students
                        to learn traditions of the University of Memphis. At the event they will hear from
                        President M. David Rudd, Provost Karen Weddle-West, Vice President for Student Affairs
                        Rosie Phillips Bingham, and numerous others about how they can make the most of their
                        time here including doing well academically and getting involved in cocurricular activities
                        and Tiger Athletics. Students receive a t-shirt and will participate in a class picture
                        following the event, which should take about one hour overall. We hope you will encourage
                        your new student to attend!
                     
                     
                     Student Involvement Fair
                     
                     Have your student come join us for the 2016 Student Involvement Fair taking place
                        on Monday, August 22, 2016 right after New Student Convocation! Any registered student
                        organization for the 2016-17 academic year will be present at a table along with several
                        local volunteer agencies.
                     
                     
                     Welcome Weekend Day of Service
                     
                     The University is hosting our first ever day of service during welcome weekend & we
                        want all our students to join us! On Saturday, August 20 from 8:00 am – 1:00 pm we
                        will be taking our talents out into the city of Memphis and giving back to the city
                        we love. Encourage your student to visit our Event Brite site HERE to see where they can make the biggest impact & sign up today!
                     
                     
                     Frosh Frenzy
                     
                     New students are invited to join the Tigers as we take on Kansas on Saturday, September
                        17 by creating a human tunnel on the football field at the Liberty Bowl! The event
                        also includes a tailgate party, a free-t-shirt, transportation to the Liberty Bowl,
                        and preferred seating at the game. Students can register online HERE !
                     
                     
                     Fraternities & Sororities
                     
                     Is your student interested in Fraternity/Sorority Life? Mark your calendars!
                     
                     Peek Into Greek: August 20th, 3:00pm in UC Ballroom A
                     
                     Interfraternity Council Open Houses: August 24th & 30th, 6:30pm in UC Theater
                     
                     NPHC Week: August 29-September 2 Panhellenic Recruitment: September 6-11 Phi Delta Theta Colony Recruitment: Coming October 2016
                     
                     
                     For more information, click here.
                     
                     Peek Into Greek As we prepare to welcome new and returning students to the University and our Fraternity
                        and Sorority Community we are introducing a new event to give potential members the
                        opportunity to meet our chapters. Peek Into Greek will occur on Saturday, August 20
                        at 3:00 pm in the University Center Ballroom. We will have a short informational presentation
                        for students, parents, and families followed by an opportunity for potential members
                        to speak with chapters at informational tables.
                     
                     
                     Panhellenic Formal Recruitment This year, Panhellenic Formal Recruitment will take place September 6-11. If your
                        student is interested in joining one of our 7 Panhellenic chapters via formal recruitment
                        (Alpha Delta Pi, Alpha Gamma Delta, Delta Gamma, Kappa Delta, Phi Mu, Pi Beta Phi,
                        or Sigma Kappa), they can register here . Formal recruitment registration will be open until August 31. If your student is
                        interested in joining a chapter within the Interfraternity Council or National Pan-Hellenic
                        Council, more information on these processes can be found here .
                     
                     
                      University News
                     
                     UofM Has Record Year in Fundraising Performance.  The University of Memphis has completed another record-breaking year in fundraising
                        performance. The UofM secured $38,536,048 in total commitments during the fiscal year
                        that ended June 30, compared to $36,774,471 in fiscal year 2015. The total includes
                        gifts of cash, pledges and planned gifts to the University of Memphis Foundation,
                        and gifts-in-kind and private grants to the UofM and University of Memphis Research
                        Foundation. The record total represents an increase of more than $1.7 million over
                        last year. Read more...
                     
                     UofM, Methodist Le Bonheur Healthcare and Shelby County Schools Create Partnership . The University of Memphis, Methodist Le Bonheur Healthcare and Shelby County Schools
                        have created a partnership designed to help inspire and prepare the next generation
                        of healthcare professionals. Central High School will develop a dual enrollment program
                        to prepare students for the health science, healthcare administration, healthcare
                        law and nursing fields. Methodist Healthcare will provide resources for classrooms
                        and teachers for the dual enrollment courses. Read more...
                     
                      ATHLETICS
                     
                     
                     Click here for all athletic sport schedules. Make sure you have your ticket! Click here to purchase tickets!
                     
                     Football:  MEMPHIS AND ASHLEY HOMESTORE ANNOUNCE HELMET GIVEAWAY. The first 10,000 fans in attendance
                        will receive a commemorative mini-helmet decoration, sponsored by Ashley HomeStore.
                        The keepsake features a Memphis blue helmet with black facemask and the primary athletic
                        logo on the side of the helmet. The helmet is seated on a replica of the Liberty Bowl
                        playing surface, making this a give-away that fans won't want to miss. Read more...
                     
                     W. Basketball:  TIGERS WOMEN'S BASKETBALL HEADS ON FOREIGN TOUR OF SPAIN MONDAY. The University of
                        Memphis women's basketball team heads out for a four-game, 10-day summer foreign tour
                        of Spain.   Read more...
                     
                      FUN FACT & QUOTE
                     
                     
                     Fun Fact:  Over 50% of University of Memphis' Philosophy PH.D. students are women. 
                     
                     
                     Quote: "Education is the most powerful weapon we can use to change the world." - Nelson
                        Mandela
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Communication
                        
                           
                              
                              UMparent E-news
                              Prospective Parent E-news
                              Parent Chats
                              Tiger Text
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Got questions, comments, or concerns?  We're here to help!
                           
                           
                              Parent & Family E-news
                              Stay in touch electronically by subscribing to our E-News.
                           
                           
                              Parent & Family Handbook
                              Learn about opportunities and services available to students.
                           
                           
                              In the Now
                              What you need to know this month to help you help your student
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 8/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/communication/enews_aug16.php
