http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/communication/enews_may2016.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Parent & Family Services
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Events
                        Communication
                        Resources
                        Get Involved
                        Give Back
                        Visit UofM
                     
                     
                        
                           Communication
                           
                              
                                 
                                 UMparent E-news
                                 Prospective Parent E-news
                                 Parent Chats
                                 Tiger Text
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Parent & Family Services
                              	
                        
                              	Communication
                              	
                        May 2016 Parent E-News
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     MAKE THE MOST OF THE SUMMER.... 
                     
                     The time to plan for the future is now. If your student did not do as well academically
                        as he or she had hoped to do during finals, encourage your student to evaluate the
                        year. Look for ways he or she can improve next year.
                     
                     
                     Students should be proud of their accomplishments and use them to motivate themselves
                        as they continue their college career.
                     
                     
                     What Parents Can Do...
                     
                     
                        
                        If your student is enrolled in the summer semester, talk about the importance of effective
                           time management.
                        
                        
                        Encourage your student to keep his or her summer job or internship.
                        
                        Evaluate the need for changes in time management and/or balance of time devoted to
                           school, work and recreation.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Connect with Parent and Family Services via Social Media
                     
                     Facebook: facebook.com/uofmparents Twitter: @UMparents Instagram: @UMparents
                     
                     in this issue
                     
                     Calendar & Dates For Parents... Essential Services Student Services University News Athletics Fun Fact & Quote
                     
                     Top
                     
                     CALENDAR & DATES 
                     
                     To stay up to date on all upcoming dates and deadlines, please check out our UMparent calendar .
                     
                     
                     May 27: Residence Hall First Summer Session Check-In
                     
                     
                     May 30: Memorial Day (University Closed)
                     
                     
                     May 31: Full Summer Session and First Summer Session Classes Begin
                     
                     
                     June 1: Deadline for Fall 2016 Residence Hall Cancellations 
                     
                     
                     June 19: Father's Day
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     For Parents.... 
                     
                     Save the Date for Parent and Family Weekend, September 16-18
                     
                     Save the Date and join us for Parent & Family Weekend , September 16-18. It is s a wonderful time to visit with your student, see their
                        favorite places and get to know the University even more. You will also have the opportunity
                        to meet other parents and families, University staff, have your questions answered
                        and enjoy and fun filled weekend. Registration will open in early summer.
                     
                     
                     We want to Know...
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              How many times did you visit campus during the Spring semester to see your student?
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 0
                                 
                                 1-2
                                 
                                 3-5
                                 
                                 5-10
                                 
                                 More than 10 times
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              Do Quizzes
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Alumni Association
                     
                     Join the Alumni Association as we honor our distinguished alumni and friends at Distinguished Alumni Awards on Saturday, May 21, at 6:00 pm at the Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort
                           Management. Click here for more information . 
                     
                     Join the Fogelman College of Business and Economics Alumni Chapter for their annual
                           Golf Tournament on Monday, June 20, at the Germantown Country Club. More information to follow.
                     
                     Essential ServiceS  
                     
                     Bursar's Office
                     
                     Registration for Summer and Fall 2016 is in full swing! Students should check their
                              accounts online on TigerXpress (through the Account$ tab on the myMemphis portal) to ensure that they do not have
                              a hold on registration or grades due to outstanding debt.
                     
                     Summer 2016
                     
                     Fees can be paid by credit card or echeck online on TigerXpress for summer registration.
                     
                     The Summer Fee Payment Deadline is May 27, 2016, by 4:30 p.m. to avoid the deletion of
                           all summer classes . Please visit our Summer Undergraduate/Graduate Fee Payment Deadline calendar for additional information.
                     
                     
                     The deadline to enroll in eRefunds (direct deposit) on TigerXpress for earliest refund of summer excess financial aid/scholarship
                        is May 23, 2016. Excess financial aid/scholarships for summer will be direct deposited
                        beginning May 27, 2016. If your student is expecting to receive excess financial aid/scholarship,
                        please encourage them to enroll in eRefunds as soon as possible to prepare for any
                        summer fee adjustments and for fall financial aid/scholarship refunds/fee adjustments.
                     
                     
                     Your student can enroll you as an Authorized User to enable you to receive email notification when eBills are available. If you are
                        an authorized user, you can access your student's account on TigerXpress to view/pay fees through the Parents/Authorized Users login.
                     
                     
                     For important fee payment deadlines and other important information, please visit the Bursar's Office website.
                     
                     Fall 2016
                     
                     Tuition and fees for the 2016-2017 academic year will be finalized by the Tennessee
                        Board of Regents the last week of June and will be available on the Bursar's website
                        by the first week of July. eBills for fall will be available on TigerXpress in late
                        July. Emails will be sent to students and authorized users, notifying them when eBills
                        are available.
                     
                     
                     New Installment Payment Plan (IPP) - available on TigerXpress in late July
                     
                     
                        
                        Effective this fall, we will be offering a new Installment Payment Plan (IPP) with
                           4 equal payments. After all financial aid (grants and student loans), scholarships
                           and third-party assistance awards have been applied, an initial down payment of 25%
                           of the balance is due by the fee payment deadline. Housing, Dining Dollars and a $50
                           enrollment fee will automatically be included in the IPP.
                        
                        
                        The subsequent 3 payments of 25% each are due on Sept. 30, Oct. 30 and Nov. 30. Enrollment
                           in the IPP is not automatic - you must enroll online through TigerXpress. For more
                           information, visit the Installment Payment Plan page of our website.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Residence Life
                     
                     First Summer Check-In May 27, 2016 1:00 – 4:00 pm First Summer rent is due May 27 and payable to the Bursar's Office. Installment plans
                        are not available for the summer sessions.
                     
                     
                     Second Summer Check-In July 1, 2016 1:00 – 4:00 pm Second Summer rent is due July 1 and payable to the Bursar's Office. Installment plans
                        are not available for the summer sessions.
                     
                     
                     Fall Cancellation Deadline The deadline for students to cancel their 2016 Fall room assignments is June 1 and
                        not be responsible for the $200 cancellation fee.
                     
                     
                     Fall 2016 Check-In August 19 & 20 1:00 – 4:30 pm Fall rent is due August 19 and payable to the Bursar's Office.
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Student Services
                     
                     Educational Support Programs
                     
                     Tutoring@ESP has summer hours. Click here for more information.  
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        AEC-Academic Enhancement Center: 207 Mitchell, MTWRF 8:00am-4:30pm
                        
                        BLC- Business Learning Center: 256 FCB, MTWR 10:00am-3:00pm
                        
                        ELC- English Learning Center: 401 Mitchell, MTWRF 10:00am-2:00pm
                        
                        MLC- Math Learning Center: 143 Dunn, MTWRF 8:00am-4:00pm
                        
                        SLC- Science Learning Center: 217 Mitchell, MTWRF 8:00am-4:00pm
                        
                        Nursing Tutotring:3004a CHB, TBA
                        
                     
                     
                     Online Tutoring is available here. 
                     
                     Top
                     
                     University News 
                     
                     UofM Magazine: The Spring 2016 University of Memphis Magazine is out! Check it out here! 
                     
                     UofM-MSO Partnership Will Make Campus Premier Destination For Music Training, Performance
                           and Artistic Outreach . In a groundbreaking collaboration between a university and a professional symphony
                        orchestra, the Memphis Symphony Orchestra (MSO) will partner with the UofM to create
                        the premier destination in the Mid-South for music training and performance, music
                        outreach and arts-centered, cross-sector community development. Read more...
                     
                     Fourteen UofM Journalism Students Will Cover Rio Olympics.  The UofM is one of only two universities (along with the University of North Carolina
                        at Chapel Hill) to have an agreement with Rio's Olympic Organizing Committee to bring
                        students there as interns. Read more...
                     
                     IEAA Director's Identification of Egyptian Blue Pigment Changes History.  Lorelei H. Corcoran, professor and director of the Institute of Egyptian Art & Archaeology
                        at the University of Memphis, has identified the earliest known example of Egyptian
                        blue, a synthetic pigment derived from the ubiquitous Egyptian sand and the oldest
                        manmade pigment in the world, on a bowl in the collection of the Museum of Fine Arts
                        (MFA) in Boston dated to 3250 BCE. Read more...
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Athletics 
                     
                     Click here for all athletic sport schedules. Make sure you have your ticket! Click here to purchase tickets!
                     
                     
                     Men's Golf:  TIGERS TO TAKE ON FIELD AT NCAA REGIONALS. For the sixth time since 2008, the Memphis
                        Tiger men's golf program is competing in the NCAA Regionals, this season's hosted
                        by Marquette University in Kohler, Wisconsin. Read more...
                     
                     Women's Volleyball : VOLLEYBALL HOSTING FIVE CLINICS OVER SUMMER. The University of Memphis volleyball
                        program will host five camps over the summer, including a Tiger Camp for boys and
                        girls ages 8-13, a pair of all-skills camps for girls ages 12-18, an elite camp for
                        girls aged 14-18 and a team camp for high school programs. Read more...
                     
                      Top
                     
                     Fun Fact and Quote 
                     
                     Fun Fact: Check out "Memphis, Soul of a City" magazine. 
                     
                     
                     Quote:  "You learn something every day if you pay attention." - Ray LeBlond
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Communication
                        
                           
                              
                              UMparent E-news
                              Prospective Parent E-news
                              Parent Chats
                              Tiger Text
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Got questions, comments, or concerns?  We're here to help!
                           
                           
                              Parent & Family E-news
                              Stay in touch electronically by subscribing to our E-News.
                           
                           
                              Parent & Family Handbook
                              Learn about opportunities and services available to students.
                           
                           
                              In the Now
                              What you need to know this month to help you help your student
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 5/19/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/communication/enews_may2016.php
