http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/communication/enews_april16.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Parent & Family Services
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Events
                        Communication
                        Resources
                        Get Involved
                        Give Back
                        Visit UofM
                     
                     
                        
                           Communication
                           
                              
                                 
                                 UMparent E-news
                                 Prospective Parent E-news
                                 Parent Chats
                                 Tiger Text
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Parent & Family Services
                              	
                        
                              	Communication
                              	
                        April 2016 Parent E-News
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     SEMESTER COMING TO AN END... 
                     
                     Your student's year is coming to an end. This is the most important time for students,
                        as they prepare for final exams. The term is drawing to a close which means your student
                        may soon be coming home for summer break.
                     
                     
                     After students receive their grades, they should ask themselves if they are happy
                        with their academic performance. The semester break is a great time to assess their
                        performance, identifying areas for possible improvement.
                     
                     
                     What Parents Can Do...
                     
                     
                        
                        Stress the wisdom of approaching finals with the attitude of doing the very best they
                           can, not worrying about what has or has not happened so far in the semester.
                        
                        
                        Remind your student to register as early as possible in order to get the classes they
                           want for the summer and fall semesters.
                        
                        
                        Encourage your student to make time for exercise, healthy meals, and sleep.
                        
                     
                     
                     Connect with Parent and Family Services via Social Media
                     
                     Facebook: facebook.com/uofmparents Twitter: @UMparents Instagram: @UMparents
                     
                     IN THIS ISSUE
                     
                     Calendar & Dates For Parents... Essential Services Student Services University News Athletics Fun Fact & Quote
                     
                     Top
                     
                     CALENDAR & DATES 
                     
                     To stay up to date on all upcoming dates and deadlines, please check out our UMparent calendar.
                     
                     April 15: Last Day to Order Finals Care Packages 
                     
                     April 24: Honors Assembly & President's Leadership Recognition Awards
                     
                     
                     April 27 : Last Day of Classes
                     
                     
                     April 28: Study Day
                     
                     
                     April 29- May 5: Exams
                     
                     
                     May 6: Residence Hall Check-Out
                     
                     
                     May 7: Spring Commencement 
                     
                     
                     May 8: Mother's Day
                     
                     
                     May 12: Final Official Grades Available 
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     FOR PARENTS... 
                     
                     Finals Care Packages
                     
                     Surprise and support your student during finals with a care package from Parent &
                        Family Services and Residence Life! Packages will include a University of Memphis
                        memorabilia item, snacks, spirit items and more to help them through finals. Packages
                        can be delivered to students at the Main and Lambuth Campuses. Click here to order ! Deadline to order is Friday, April 15. Please email us at parents@memphis.edu if you have any questions.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                     We Want to Know...
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              What is your highest level of education?
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Some High School/No Degree
                                 
                                 High School Diploma
                                 
                                 GED
                                 
                                 Some College, No Degree
                                 
                                 Associate's
                                 
                                 Bachelor's
                                 
                                 Master's
                                 
                                 Doctorate
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              Do Quizzes
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Save the Date for Parent & Family Weekend, September 16-18
                     
                     
                     
                     Save the Date and join us for Parent & Family Weekend , September 16-18. It is s a wonderful time to visit with your student, see their
                        favorite places and get to know the University even more. You will also have the opportunity
                        to meet other parents and families, University staff, have your questions answered
                        and enjoy and fun filled weekend. Registration will open in early summer.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                     Alumni Association 
                     
                     Join the Band Alumni Chapter for the Inaugural Ray Mullins Memorial Golf Tournament
                        on Monday, April 25 at Mirimichi Golf Course. Registration begins at 11:30 am. Proceeds
                        benefit the Mighty Sound of the South and UofM Bands! Presented by Wells Fargo. For
                        more information or to RSVP, click here.
                     
                     Join the Alumni Association on Saturday, May 21 as we honor our distinguished alumni
                        and friends at the 2016 Distinguished Alumni Awards. For more information or to purchase
                        a table, click here . 
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     ESSENTIAL SERVICES 
                     
                     BURSAR'S OFFICE
                     
                     Registration for summer and fall 2016 has begun! Students should check their accounts
                        online on TigerXpress (through the Account$ tab on the myMemphis portal) to ensure
                        that they do not have a hold on registration or grades due to outstanding debt.
                     
                     
                     Invoices will b e available on TigerXpress by the end of April. Emails will be sent to students and
                           authorized users notifying them when invoices are available. Students remain responsible for completing the fee payment process
                        by the appropriate fee payment deadline, even if they do not receive or open the fee
                        invoice.
                     
                     
                     Your student can enroll you as an Authorized User to enable you to receive email notification
                        when invoices are available. If you are an authorized user, you can access your student's
                        account on TigerXpress to view/pay fees using this log in .
                     
                     FEE PAYMENT POLICY: The deletion of courses for non-payment will occur prior to the first day of class for the semester. Carefully review the registration dates and corresponding fee payment/deletion
                        deadlines on the Bursar's semester calendar .
                     
                     
                     Students who register ONLY for Pre-Summer (Maymester) OR Pre-Summer and any other summer Part-Of-Term (P OT) course from April 4 – May 6 must
                        pay all fees by 4:30 pm. on May 6 to avoid deletion of classes.
                     
                     
                     Students who register for any Summer POT (Full, RODP, 1st, 1st Teach, 2nd, 2nd Teach)
                        course from April 4 – May 27 must pay all fees by 4:30 pm. on May 27 to avoid deletion
                        of classes.
                     
                     
                     Fees may be paid by credit card or e-check online on TigerXpress .
                     
                     
                     If your student is expecting to receive excess financial aid/scholarships, they should
                        enroll in eRefunds (direct deposit) on TigerXpress by May 23 for earliest refund of
                        excess summer financial aid/scholarships.
                     
                     
                     Dining Dollars
                     
                     Students may request a refund of their unused Dining Dollars online during the refund period April 25 – May 6 . Details are located on our website.
                     
                     Financial Aid
                     
                     The Financial Aid office has already awarded Incoming Freshmen who submitted their
                        2016-2017 FAFSA.
                     
                     
                     Ask your student to check their myMemphis account for the Aid Year 2016-17 to determine
                        if additional forms/documents are needed for their award. Click here for directions on how to access award information.
                     
                     
                     The Financial Aid office is accepting 2016-17 FAFSA's and missing forms/documents
                        for our continuing students but will wait to post their aid until after Spring 2016
                        grades are official.
                     
                     
                     Students can still apply for federal financial aid by completing the 2016-17 Free
                        Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Click here for the website.
                     
                     If your student has any questions or concerns, please have them call the Financial
                        Aid office at 901.678.4825, email at financialaid@memphis.edu , or visit 103 Wilder Tower. If they have a scholarship inquiry, including the HOPE
                        Lottery Scholarship, please contact the Scholarships Office at 901.678.3213, email
                        at scholarships@memphis.edu , or visit 201 Wilder Tower.
                     
                     
                     Tiger Dining
                     
                     Fall Meal Plan Bonus Students who sign up for their Fall 2016 meal plan before May 8th  get their choice of FREE* Steak 'n Shake, Einstein Bros., or Chick-fil-A for the
                        fall semester! Residents can sign up using the housing portal and commuters can sign
                        up here . For questions, email tigerdining@memphis.edu .
                     
                     
                     *Free items include their choice of one of the following: 16 free Steak 'n Shake milkshakes,
                        16 free Einstein Bagels, or 16 free Chick-fil-A original sandwiches.
                     
                     
                     Residence Life
                     
                     Spring 2016 Check-Out May 6
                     
                     
                     First Summer Check-In May 27, 1 – 4 pm First Summer rent is due by May 27 and is payable to the Bursar's Office. Installment
                        plans are not available for the summer sessions.
                     
                     
                     Second Summer Check-In July 1 Second Summer rent is due by July 1 and payable to the Bursar's Office. Installment
                        plans are not available for the summer sessions.
                     
                     
                     Fall Cancellation Deadline The deadline for students to cancel their fall room assignments is June 1 and not
                        be responsible for a $200 cancellation fee.
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     STUDENT SERVICES 
                     
                     Commencement
                     
                     Spring Commencement 2016 Saturday, May 7, 2016*
                     
                     
                     10:00 am:
                     
                     
                        
                        College of Arts & Sciences
                        
                        Communication and Fine Arts
                        
                        University College
                        
                        Doctoral Candidates for these colleges
                        
                     
                     
                     2:30 pm:
                     
                     
                        
                        Fogelman College of Business and Economics
                        
                        Kemmons Wilson of Hospitality and Resort Management
                        
                        College of Education
                        
                        School of Health Studies
                        
                        Herff College of Engineering
                        
                        Loewenberg College of Nursing
                        
                        School of Public Health
                        
                        School of Communication Sciences and Disorders
                        
                        Doctoral Candidates for these colleges and schools.
                        
                     
                     
                     *Backup Date: SUNDAY, May 8, 2016 at 12:00 PM and 4:30 PM. Read more in the Commencement
                        News Section.
                     
                     Top
                     
                     UNIVERSITY NEWS 
                     
                     Sexual Assault Awareness Month April is Sexual Assault Awareness Month – According to the Centers for Disease Control
                        "sexual violence is a serious public health problem affecting the health and well-being
                        of millions of individuals each year, with notably high rates among College students."
                        Click here to watch UofM President M. David Rudd's video and others on this matter. 
                     
                     University of Memphis, ALSAC to Open Philanthropy Lab That Will Serve As a Donor Contact Center
                           for St. Jude Children's Research Hospital. The University of Memphis and ALSAC, the fundraising and awareness organization for
                        St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, have formed a new partnership designed to benefit
                        the Memphis community that includes a Philanthropy Lab in the Billy Mac Jones Building
                        at 633 Normal St. Read more...
                     
                     UofM Honors Students Present Research at National Conference.  Thirteen University of Memphis honors students presented their research projects at
                        the National Conference for Undergraduate Research (NCUR), which was held from April
                        7-9 at the University of North Carolina Asheville. Read more...
                     
                     Top
                     
                     ATHLETICS 
                     
                     Click here for all athletic sport schedules. Make sure you have your ticket! Click here to purchase tickets!
                     
                     
                     General: POUNCER PARTICIPATING IN THE OVER THE EDGE MASCOT CHALLENGE  Pouncer is going over the edge – of the Raymond James Tower in downtown Memphis to
                        help benefit the Orphanos Foundation, a Memphis-based charity serving orphans and
                        vulnerable children at risk in 23 countries, on Friday, April 22nd at 1:00 p.m. Read more...
                     
                     M. Basketball:   GOODWIN EARNS INVITATION TO PORTSMOUTH INVITATIONAL  After a stellar senior season, former Memphis Tiger forward Shaq Goodwin has been
                        invited to the Portsmouth Invitational, hosted in Portsmouth, Virginia. Read more...
                     
                     Top
                     
                     FUN FACT AND QUOTE 
                     
                     Fun Fact
                     
                     All our Registered Student Organizations can be found in one place. Click here to see what organizations your student can be involved in.
                     
                     
                     Quote
                     
                     "Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world." - Nelson
                        Mandela
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Communication
                        
                           
                              
                              UMparent E-news
                              Prospective Parent E-news
                              Parent Chats
                              Tiger Text
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Got questions, comments, or concerns?  We're here to help!
                           
                           
                              Parent & Family E-news
                              Stay in touch electronically by subscribing to our E-News.
                           
                           
                              Parent & Family Handbook
                              Learn about opportunities and services available to students.
                           
                           
                              In the Now
                              What you need to know this month to help you help your student
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 4/14/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/communication/enews_april16.php
