http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/communication/enews_march16.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Parent & Family Services
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Events
                        Communication
                        Resources
                        Get Involved
                        Give Back
                        Visit UofM
                     
                     
                        
                           Communication
                           
                              
                                 
                                 UMparent E-news
                                 Prospective Parent E-news
                                 Parent Chats
                                 Tiger Text
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Parent & Family Services
                              	
                        
                              	Communication
                              	
                        March 2016 Parent E-News 
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                      The semester is now midway through and this is often a very exciting and busy time
                        for students. Parents should remind students to be safe while having fun. While spring
                        is a time for much social activity, balance is also important.
                     
                     
                     What Parents Can Do 
                     
                     
                        
                        Keep in touch, but don't call every day!
                        
                        Use e-mail and Facebook as an easy and convenient means of communication.
                        
                        Encourage your student to schedule an appointment with his or her advisor for the
                           summer and fall semesters.
                        
                        
                        Encourage your student to begin thinking about a summer job or internship.
                        
                        Advise your student to talk to his or her professors to assess course performance.
                        
                     
                     
                     Connect with Parent and Family Services via Social Media
                     
                     Facebook: facebook.com/uofmparents Twitter: @UMparents Instagram: @UMparents
                     
                     In this issue
                     
                     
                        
                        Calendar & Dates
                        
                        For Parents...
                        
                        Essential Services
                        
                        Student Services
                        
                        University News
                        
                        Athletics
                        
                        Fun Fact & Quote
                        
                     
                     
                      CALENDAR & DATES
                     
                     
                     To stay up to date on all upcoming dates and deadlines, please check out our UMparent calendar .
                     
                     
                     March 17: Spring Finals Care Packages Ordering Opens
                     
                     March 31: Women's History Month Ends
                     
                     April 1: 2nd Installment Fee Payment Deadline
                     
                     
                     April 4: Registration for Fall Classes Opens
                     
                     
                     April 15: Finals Care Package Ordering Closes
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                      For parents...
                     
                     
                     Finals Care Packages
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Surprise and support your student during finals with a care package from Parent &
                        Family Services and Residence Life! Packages will include a University of Memphis
                        memorabilia item, snacks, spirit items and more to help them through finals. Packages
                        can be delivered to students at the Main and Lambuth Campuses. Click here to order! Deadline to order is Friday, April 15. Please email us at parents@memphis.edu if you have any questions.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     We Want to Know...
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              Has your student visited Career Services?
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Yes
                                 
                                 No
                                 
                                 Unsure
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              Poll Maker
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      essential services
                     
                     
                     Registrar's Office
                     
                     Summer and Fall 2016 Registration
                     
                     Students may now view both Summer and Fall course offerings online through their myMemphis
                        portal; registration opens for both terms April 4. Students register according to
                        their student classification. 
                     
                     
                     1st Day to Register for Summer and/or Fall 2016
                     
                     
                        
                        April 4: Graduate Students (degree-seeking) & Honors Students & Veterans
                        
                        April 5: Seniors
                        
                        April 6: Juniors 
                        
                        April 7: Sophomores
                        
                        April 11: Freshmen
                        
                     
                     
                     Complete Summer and Fall Dates and Deadlines calendars are available here.
                     
                     If your students have not seen an advisor, encourage them to make an appointment ASAP.  All degree-seeking students must be advised before they can register. Also, the sooner
                        students register, the more open course selections they can choose from.
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Financial Aid office
                     
                     Our office has already awarded Incoming Freshmen who submitted their 2016-2017 FAFSA.
                     
                     Ask your student to check their myMemphis account for the Aid Year 2016-17 to determine
                        if additional forms/documents are needed for their award. Click here for directions on how to access award information.
                     
                     
                     Our office is accepting 2016-17 FAFSA's and missing forms/documents for our continuing
                        students but will wait to post their aid until after Spring 2016 grades are official.
                     
                     
                     Students can still apply for federal financial aid by completing the 2016-17 Free
                        Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Click here for the website.
                     
                     If your student has any questions or concerns, please have him/her call the Financial
                        Aid office at 901.678.4825, email at financialaid@memphis.edu , or visit 103 Wilder Tower. If they have a scholarship inquiry, including the HOPE
                        Lottery Scholarship, please contact the Scholarships Office at 901.678.3213, email
                        at scholarships@memphis.edu , or visit 201 Wilder Tower.
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Bursar Office/Campus Card
                     
                     Students enrolled in the spring 2016 Installment Payment Plan:
                     
                     
                        
                        The second installment payment is due by April 1, 2016. A $25 late payment fee will be assessed for both tuition and housing (if included
                           in the plan), if payment is not received by the University on or before the due date.
                        
                        
                        Fees may be paid by credit card or eCheck online on TigerXpress .
                        
                        
                        Authorized users may access their student's account to view/pay fees through the Parent/Authorized User Access page.
                        
                     
                     
                     Upcoming deadlines/key dates:
                     
                     
                        
                        April 1: 2nd Installment Fee Payment Deadline (4:30 p.m.) for students who utilized
                           the Installment Payment Plan for the Spring 2016 semester
                        
                        
                        April 1: Registration holds for Summer 2016 and Fall 2016 will be set for students
                           who have an outstanding debt at that time. Students should check their accounts online
                           through TigerXpress to ensure that they do not have charges that would prevent them from registering.
                        
                        
                        April 1: Registration loans are due in order to avoid a $25 late payment fee
                        
                        April 4: Registration for Summer 2016 and Fall 2016 begins
                        
                     
                     
                     Please visit the Fee Payment Deadlines/Refunds/Important Dates calendar for additional information.
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Residence Life
                     
                     Spring 2016 Check-Out May 6
                     
                     
                     First Summer Check-In May 27, 1 – 4 pm First Summer rent is due May 27 and payable to the Bursar's Office. Installment plans
                        are not available for the summer sessions.
                     
                     
                     Second Summer Check-In July 1 Second Summer rent is due July 1 and payable to the Bursar's Office. Installment plans
                        are not available for the summer sessions.
                     
                     
                     Fall Cancellation Deadline The deadline for students to cancel their fall room assignments is June 1 and not
                        be responsible for a $200 cancellation fee.
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                      Student Services
                     
                     
                     Commencement
                     
                     Spring Commencement 2016 Saturday, May 7, 2016* 10:00 am:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        College of Arts & Sciences
                        
                        Communication and Fine Arts
                        
                        University College
                        
                        Doctoral Candidates for these colleges
                        
                     
                     
                     2:30 pm:
                     
                     
                        
                        Fogelman College of Business and Economics
                        
                        Kemmons Wilson of Hospitality and Resort Management
                        
                        College of Education
                        
                        School of Health Studies
                        
                        Herff College of Engineering
                        
                        Loewenberg College of Nursing
                        
                        School of Public Health
                        
                        School of Communication Sciences and Disorders
                        
                        Doctoral Candidates for these colleges and schools.
                        
                     
                     
                     *Backup Date: SUNDAY, May 8, 2016 at 12:00 PM and 4:30 PM. Read more in the Commencement  News Section.
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Technology for Students
                     
                     Looking for Software or a Computer for your student? The University of Memphis has negotiated with several software vendors to provide
                        special pricing for personal purchases by students in the following programs.
                     
                     
                     General Software: Purchase popular software packages at unbelievably low prices online. All University
                        of Memphis students are able to purchase discounted software for use on their personal
                        computer. General Discount Software Store.
                     
                     Microsoft Products: Did you know Microsoft Office Suite is available at no cost in PC and Mac platforms
                        for your currently enrolled student? The software includes Word, Excel, PowerPoint,
                        Outlook and OneNote. Office is a great tool for completing coursework and assignments.
                        Your student can download a copy of the software to their computer or laptop. To learn
                        more about downloading Microsoft Office, have your student visit the Office website.
                     
                     Adobe Products: Adobe products are available to be purchased by students at deeply discounted prices!
                        This opportunity is for personal sales only and are to be used on personal computers. Adobe Store
                     
                     Apple Products: Software associated with Apple is available for purchase by students at discounted
                        prices. This is only available for personal sales and for use only on personal computers.
                        The Apple Store for Education.
                     
                     To learn more about student success, visit our website .
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                      University News
                     
                     
                     UofM School of Public Health Research Impacts Memphis:  In its mission to deliver innovative health solutions to the community, researchers
                        from the University of Memphis School of Public Health had an impressive year of securing
                        funding for research projects. In 2015, SPH faculty members were awarded $4.15 million
                        in new funding for 16 research projects; another 15 awards are pending. This is the
                        highest funding total for the SPH since it was established six years ago. Read more...
                     
                     University of Memphis' Hooks Institute Honors Brownsville, Tenn., Native and JCPenney
                           CEO Marvin R. Ellison : The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change will honor West Tennessee native
                        Marvin R. Ellison, CEO of JCPenney, at the Institute's annual "Join Hands for Change"
                        gala on April 21. The gala's theme, "Empowering, Supporting and Celebrating African
                        American Men: Triumph through Perseverance," highlights the contributions of men such
                        as Ellison, a UofM alumnus who has achieved significant personal and professional
                        success. Read more...
                     
                     John Elkington Donates Beale Street Memorabilia to University of Memphis:  Longtime Beale Street developer John Elkington has donated items from his personal
                        collection to the University of Memphis. Elkington, a principal in Elkington Real
                        Estate Group and a graduate of the UofM's Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law, has amassed
                        a collection of more than 10,000 slides, posters and photographs that date back to
                        the 1950s. Read more...
                     
                     Top
                     
                      ATHLETICS
                     
                     
                     Click here for all athletic sport schedules. Make sure you have your ticket! Click here to purchase tickets!
                     
                     
                     Men's Tennis Back in Action in San Diego Beginning March 17
                     
                     The University of Memphis men's tennis team, ranked No. 26 in the latest Intercollegiate
                        Tennis Association (ITA) ranking, is back in action in California on Thursday as the
                        Tigers are one of eight teams participating in the Hilton San Diego Mission Valley
                        Spring Classic. Read more. ..
                     
                     
                     W. Basketball: Memphis-UT Martin WNIT Game Time Set
                     
                     Tigers, Skyhawks to tip at 7 p.m. (CT) at the Elma Roane Fieldhouse. Late Monday night,
                        the University of Memphis women's basketball team received a Women's National Invitation
                        Tournament (WNIT) bid and learned it would host UT Martin at the Elma Roane Fieldhouse
                        Thursday. Read more....
                     
                     Top
                     
                      FUN FACT AND QUOTE
                     
                     
                     Fun Fact
                     
                     Tiger Learning Communities are groups of 20-30 first semester freshman enrolled in
                        3-4 of the same courses. Smaller class sizes allow for close collaboration and help
                        to create a comfortable and inclusive environment. Check out a video explaining more here!  
                     
                     
                     Quote
                     
                     "The beautiful thing about learning is nobody can take it away from you."-B.B. King
                     
                     Top
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Communication
                        
                           
                              
                              UMparent E-news
                              Prospective Parent E-news
                              Parent Chats
                              Tiger Text
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Got questions, comments, or concerns?  We're here to help!
                           
                           
                              Parent & Family E-news
                              Stay in touch electronically by subscribing to our E-News.
                           
                           
                              Parent & Family Handbook
                              Learn about opportunities and services available to students.
                           
                           
                              In the Now
                              What you need to know this month to help you help your student
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/30/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/communication/enews_march16.php
