http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/communication/enews_feb16.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   	
      		
      		
      
      		
      
      		
      		
      		
      
      		
      
      		
      	
      		
      
      		
      	
      		
      
      		
      
      		
      
      	
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Parent & Family Services
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Events
                        Communication
                        Resources
                        Get Involved
                        Give Back
                        Visit UofM
                     
                     
                        
                           Communication
                           
                              
                                 
                                 UMparent E-news
                                 Prospective Parent E-news
                                 Parent Chats
                                 Tiger Text
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Parent & Family Services
                              	
                        
                              	Communication
                              	
                        Parent E-News: February 2016 Edition
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Parent E-News: February 2016 Edition
                     
                     In February, students will now be a month into the second semester of the year. If
                        your student is unhappy with any of their courses and are considering dropping a class,
                        be sure this is done by the deadline. Click here to visit the Spring 2016 Dates and Deadlines calendar.
                     
                     
                     If students joined any clubs or organizations in the fall, they may wish to rejoin
                        that club this semester. If a particular club wasn't right for your student, encourage
                        them to look around for other clubs that the UofM has to offer.
                     
                     
                     What Parents Can Do...
                     
                     
                        
                        Relationships are a focus during this month, and your student may need you to listen
                           as they talk about experiences with friends and significant others.
                        
                        
                        Have faith in your student's ability to make his or her own decisions
                        
                        The UofM provides various opportunities to learn outside the classroom. Many organizations
                           offer free programs with well-known speakers to help add to the students' knowledge
                           of their world. Suggest your student attend some of these programs.
                        
                        
                        Encourage your student to begin thinking about making a decision on housing for the
                           fall semester.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     As always feel free to contact us via email at parents@memphis.edu or via phone at
                        901.678.2115.
                     
                     
                     Connect with Parent and Family Services via Social Media
                     
                     Facebook: facebook.com/uofmparents Twitter: @UMparents Instagram: @UMparents
                     
                     CALENDAR & DATES 
                     
                     To stay up to date on all upcoming dates and deadlines, please check out our UMparent calendar .
                     
                     
                     February 29: Black History Month Closing
                     
                     March 1: First Installment Fee Payment Deadline; FAFSA Priority deadline for Fall
                        2016, Spring 2017, and Summer 2017
                     
                     
                     March 1: Women's History Month Opening Ceremony
                     
                     March 2: Spring Career and Internship Expo, 10:00 am- 4:00 pm, University Center Ballroom
                     
                     March 4: Last Day of Classes (1st Session Classes)
                     
                     March 7-13: Spring Break
                     
                     March 13: Daylights Saving Time Begins
                     
                     March 14: First Day of Classes (2nd Session Classes)
                     
                     March 15: Last Day to Drop Courses (No Refund, W grade assigned)
                     
                     March 17: St. Patrick's Day
                     
                     Top
                     
                     We want to know....
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              Would you purchase a Finals Care Package for your student this semester if offered?
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Yes
                                 
                                 No
                                 
                                 Maybe
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              facebook poll 
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      Top
                     
                     Bursar/Campus Card
                     
                     Students enrolled in the Spring 2016 Installment Payment Plan:
                     
                     The first installment payment is due by March 1, 2016. A $25 late payment fee will be assessed for both tuition and housing (if included
                        in the plan), if payment is not received by the University on or before the due date.  The second and final installment is due April 1, 2016.  Fees may be paid by credit card or eCheck online on TigerXpress .
                     
                     
                     Authorized users may access their student's account to view/pay fees through the Parent/Authorized User Access page .
                     
                     
                     The Fee Payment Deadline (4:30 pm) is March 11 for students who register for Second
                        Part of Term ONLY classes between January 30 and March 11.
                     
                     
                     Please visit our Fee Payment Deadlines/Refunds/Important Dates calendar for additional information.
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Scholarships for Fall 2016 & Spring 2017
                     
                     The Tiger Scholarship Manager Application is available for the Fall 2016 & Spring
                        2017 semesters. The online application is available to all undergraduate, graduate, admitted freshmen, and admitted transfer
                        students. If your student has questions please have them contact the Scholarship Office
                        at 901-678-3213, or e-mail the office at scholarships@memphis.edu .
                     
                     
                      Top
                     
                     RESIDENCE LIFE
                     
                     Spring 2016 Check-Out May 6
                     
                     
                     First Summer Check-In May 27, 1 – 4 pm First Summer rent is due May 27 and payable to the Bursar's Office. Installment plans
                        are not available for the summer sessions.
                     
                     
                     Second Summer Check-In July 1 Second Summer rent is due July 1 and payable to the Bursar's Office. Installment plans
                        are not available for the summer sessions.
                     
                     
                     Fall Cancellation Deadline The deadline for students to cancel their fall room assignments is June 1 and not
                        be responsible for a $200 cancellation fee.
                     
                     
                     Does your student need a summer job?
                     
                     Summer Facilities Assistants are needed for Reslife. Click here to apply . Deadline for applications is March 28.
                     
                     
                     Summer Conference Assistants are needed to assist in serving the needs of summer conference
                        guests on campus. Click here to apply . Deadline for applications is February 19.  
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Tiger Dining
                     
                     25 Meal Deal from Tiger Dining For a limited time, Tiger Dining is offering 25 meals for $175—a savings over $25
                        versus paying at the door! Students may use meals at Tiger Den, the all-you-care-to-eat
                        dining center on campus. Sign up online .
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Educational Support Program
                     
                     Centennial Place Learning Center (CPLC) is conveniently located in Centennial Place which is the newest building on
                        campus! CPLC sets the environment where students study how to become better learners!
                        Some amenities that your student can expect include: Large space for working alone
                        or with others; white boards; comfortable chairs; large tables; support from ESP Tutors
                        in a wide range of courses; and open for night tutoring SunMTW. We look forward to
                        meeting your student at CPLC. Click here to view the details.
                     
                     
                     For more information regarding Tutoring @ ESP, or any of its services and programs,
                        contact Dr. Barbara Bekis at 901.678.2704, bbekis@memphis.edu . 
                     
                     
                     Visit the Tutoring @ ESP website for learning center Spring 2016 schedules.
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Study Abroad
                     
                     Summer and Fall Semester Study Abroad Scholarship Application Deadlines are March 1st ! Click here to apply . 
                     
                     
                     Email Tigersabroad@memphis.edu for more information!
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Commencement
                     
                     Spring Commencement 2016 Saturday, May 7, 2016 10:00 am:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        College of Arts & Sciences
                        
                        Communication and Fine Arts
                        
                        University College
                        
                        Doctoral Candidates for these colleges.
                        
                     
                     
                     2:30 pm:
                     
                     
                        
                        Fogelman College of Business and Economics
                        
                        Kemmons Wilson of Hospitality and Resort Management
                        
                        College of Education
                        
                        School of Health Studies
                        
                        Herff College of Engineering,
                        
                        Loewenberg College of Nursing
                        
                        School of Public Health
                        
                        School of Communication Sciences and Disorders
                        
                        Doctoral Candidates for these colleges and schools.
                        
                     
                     
                     Backup Date: SUNDAY, May 8, 2016 at 12:00 PM and 4:30 PM. Read more in our News Section.
                     
                     Top  
                     
                     
                     Career Services
                     
                     How to Work a Career Fair Is your student in need of a job or an internship? The office of Career Services is
                        hosting a variety of career and internship expos throughout the spring semester and
                        we want your student to attend! Career expos provide interview opportunities to special
                        segments of the student population. Before your student attends, here are some helpful
                        tips to pass along:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Research Registered Employers. Your student can get a huge jump on the competition
                           by getting a list of the companies attending the fair and doing some research on each
                           of the companies they want to interview with. Have your student rank companies according
                           to their interest so that they may visit those of most interest first. Information
                           about who will be attending each expo will be available via your student's TigerLink
                           account.
                        
                        
                        Take Multiple Copies of Your Resume. Bring lots of resumes to the fair — at least
                           two for each company for which your student has an interest. If you have multiple
                           interests or job objectives, make sure you bring enough of each version of your resume.
                           Also, encourage your student to have their resume reviewed by a Career Services professional
                           before attending! Your student may do so via the Career Services online database,
                           TigerLink, or by making an appointment with a Career Services professional.
                        
                        
                        Wear Appropriate Attire. No jeans or sneakers allowed! This is not an interview; however,
                           your student should dress as if it were. Traditional business attire (e.g. (men) a
                           traditional business suite, collared shirt and tie, hard bottom dress shoes; (women)
                           a traditional business suite, appropriate blouse, minimum jewelry, heels or flats)
                           is essential. Image and first impressions are critical!
                        
                        
                        Network, Network, Network! Encourage your student to get out of their comfort zone!
                           Making eye contact and starting a conversation with an employer may open up a variety
                           of opportunities. Your student may only have two to five minutes to market themselves.
                           Have your student prepare a 30 second speech that conveys information about how their
                           interest and qualifications match those of the organization; encourage them to do
                           their research!
                        
                        
                        Follow-up with Recruiters. Following up with a recruiter can separate your student
                           from the competition and send a lasting impression with the company.
                        
                        
                        Be Focused! Have your student be considerate of the recruiter's time. Avoid having
                           your student attend the fair for recruiter's giveaways. Employers are there to meet
                           as many candidates as possible, so encourage professionalism at all times.
                        
                        
                        Have Fun! Above all else, encourage your student to have fun. Career expos can be
                           intimidating, but it is a great way to begin the job and internship search and place
                           your student one step closer to their dreams!
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     The Career Services office will be hosting a Career and Internship Expo on Wednesday,
                        March 2, 2016 from 10:00 a.m.- 4:00 p.m. in the University Center Ballroom. For more
                        information regarding how to work a career fair or about the upcoming events please
                        visit the Career Services office at 400 Wilder Tower or call (901) 678-2239.
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Technology for Students
                     
                     Looking for Software or a Computer for your student? The University of Memphis has negotiated with several software vendors to provide
                        special pricing for personal purchases by students in the following programs.
                     
                     
                     General Software: Purchase popular software packages at unbelievably low prices online. All University
                        of Memphis students are able to purchase discounted software for use on their personal
                        computer. General Discount Software Store.
                     
                     Microsoft Products : Did you know Microsoft Office Suite is available at no cost in PC and Mac platforms
                        for your currently enrolled student? The software includes Word, Excel, PowerPoint,
                        Outlook and OneNote. Office is a great tool for completing coursework and assignments.
                        Your student can download a copy of the software to their computer or laptop. To learn
                        more about downloading Microsoft Office, have your student visit the Office website.
                     
                     Adobe Products: Adobe products are available to be purchased by students at deeply discounted prices!
                        This opportunity is for personal sales only and are to be used on personal computers.
                        Adobe Store
                     
                     Apple Products: Software associated with Apple is available for purchase by students at discounted
                        prices. This is only available for personal sales and for use only on personal computers.
                        The Apple Store for Education.
                     
                     To learn more about student success, visit our website .
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Is your student a first-year or senior student? Encourage them to take the National
                        Survey of Student Engagement.
                     
                     
                     The University of Memphis is participating in the National Survey of Student Engagement
                        (NSSE), which assesses the extent to which students are engaged in their classroom
                        and out of classroom activities. The survey is administered every two to three years
                        to any first-year (freshman) or senior student that has been on the University of
                        Memphis campus for at least one previous semester. Participation will help the University
                        of Memphis learn students&rsquo; perspectives, benchmark against other Tennessee Board
                        of Regents institutions, and glean comparison data against universities and colleges
                        nationwide. Please encourage your student to complete the survey, which they should
                        have received on February 16.
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     GENERAL NEWS
                     
                     Doing Is Maintaining.  Sustainability. It is a buzz word commonly heard around the world — but one that
                        also resonates deeply on campus. University of Memphis faculty and students are conducting
                        interdisciplinary research that will assure an endless supply of high-quality drinking
                        water for our communities now and in the future. Memphis is one of the largest cities
                        that draws its drinking water from an aquifer, making it a natural location for the
                        research. Click here to see a video that demonstrates our passion for ensuring that our communities have
                        access to the resources they need for survival, such as clean drinking water. The
                        UofM is dedicated to making the world a better place with timely, cutting-edge research
                        that makes a global difference. At the UofM, we believe that Doing is Maintaining .
                     
                     
                     Reverse Transfer Program Allows UofM Students to Earn Associate Degrees.  Students at the University of Memphis who started their college journey at a Tennessee
                        community college may be eligible to receive their associate degree through the Tennessee
                        Reverse Transfer program. Read more...
                     
                     Google Names Memphis its Tennessee eCity, Citing MD2K Center of Excellence : "Memphis is a musical city – it's the birthplace of the blues and rock 'n' roll
                        and a hotspot for country," Google said of Memphis. "The city also has a technology
                        focus. The University of Memphis has a specialty in sensor research and has pioneered
                        fully reconfigurable modular body-worn sensors for easy and portable vitality, cardiac
                        and neurological monitoring." Read more...
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Athletics
                     
                     Click here for all athletic sport schedules. Make sure you have your ticket! Click here to purchase tickets!
                     
                     
                     General.  234 Sudent-Athletes Named to Tiger 3.0 Club; 30 Student Athletes Post Perfect 4.0
                        GPA. The complete list of honorees can be viewed here.
                     
                     Rifle.  Tigers Rifle Ranked Number 9 for Fifth-Straight Week.  Read more....
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Fun Fact and Quote
                     
                     Fun Fact: Check out the University of Memphis' YouTube channel . Make sure to subscribe to stay in the know of all that is happening on our campus. 
                     
                     
                     Quote:  "Don't put a limit on anything. The more you dream the farther you get." - Michael
                        Phelps
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Communication
                        
                           
                              
                              UMparent E-news
                              Prospective Parent E-news
                              Parent Chats
                              Tiger Text
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Got questions, comments, or concerns?  We're here to help!
                           
                           
                              Parent & Family E-news
                              Stay in touch electronically by subscribing to our E-News.
                           
                           
                              Parent & Family Handbook
                              Learn about opportunities and services available to students.
                           
                           
                              In the Now
                              What you need to know this month to help you help your student
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 2/18/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/communication/enews_feb16.php
