http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/communication/enews_jan16.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Parent & Family Services
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Events
                        Communication
                        Resources
                        Get Involved
                        Give Back
                        Visit UofM
                     
                     
                        
                           Communication
                           
                              
                                 
                                 UMparent E-news
                                 Prospective Parent E-news
                                 Parent Chats
                                 Tiger Text
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Parent & Family Services
                              	
                        
                              	Communication
                              	
                        January Parent E-News
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Parent & Family News: January 2016
                     
                     GETTING STARTED AGAIN... 
                     
                     We are excited to have your students back on campus soon! Many students think of January
                        as a new beginning, a time to improve upon the previous semester. Your student's new
                        freedom will also require new responsibilities, especially when it comes to managing
                        finances.
                     
                     
                     Talk with your student about these responsibilities often. Having a checking account
                        or credit card may be a completely new experience for your student. You may want to
                        have a conversation about budgeting expenses, spending habits and paying for their
                        education.
                     
                     
                     What Parents Can Do...
                     
                     
                        
                        Make sure your student knows what books he or she will need for classes this semester.
                           Click here to visit the bookstore website to look them up.
                        
                        
                        Talk with your student about his or her financial needs for the spring semester.
                        
                        Review the events of the past semester with your student.
                        
                        Evaluate the need and/or benefits of a part-time job.
                        
                     
                     
                     As always feel free to contact via email at parents@memphis.edu or via phone at 901.678.2115.
                     
                     
                     Important Upcoming Dates
                     
                     To stay up to date on all upcoming dates and deadlines, please check out our UMparent calendar .
                     
                     
                     January 14: Residence Hall Check-In
                     
                     
                     January 15 : Fee Payment Deadline
                     
                     
                     January 18: Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day (University is Closed)
                     
                     
                     January 19: First Day of Spring 2016 Classes
                     
                     
                     February 1: Last Day to Drop Classes with No Grade & Priority FAFSA Deadline for 2016-2017
                     
                     
                     February 1: Black History Month Opening, Rose Theatre, 7:00 pm
                     
                     
                     February 7: Super Bowl
                     
                     
                     February 9: Mardi Gras Begins 
                     
                     
                     February 17: Education Career Fair , UC Ballroom, 1:00-4:00 pm
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     For Parents & Families
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              How often do you typically communicate with your student?
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 More than once a day
                                 
                                 Once a day
                                 
                                 2 to 3 times a week
                                 
                                 At least once a week
                                 
                                 Once a month
                                 
                                 Less than once a month
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              Do Quizzes
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Top  
                     
                     
                     Essential Services
                     
                     Financial Aid Office
                     
                     Have you completed the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) for 2016-17
                        yet?? Log on today to get started and use The University of Memphis' federal school code 003509.
                        Both student and parent will need to use the new FSA ID and password to complete the
                        application. If you haven't set yours up yet log on .
                     
                     
                     While the application will require income tax information for the 2015 tax year, you
                        should estimate your income to meet the priority deadline of February 1st!! Once you
                        file your income tax return, you can simply go back to your FAFSA and utilize the
                        Data Retrieval Tool that will directly transfer your income information from the IRS
                        database on to your FAFSA.
                     
                     
                     Don't delay, submit your 2016-17 FAFSA today!!
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Registrar's Office
                     
                     Spring 2016 Registration
                     
                     Spring registration has been open for all degree-seeking students since November 16.
                        Refer to this calendar for important Spring Dates and Deadlines. 
                     
                     The last day of regular registration is January 15 . Students who register after this date will be subject to late registration and late
                        payment fees.
                     
                     
                     Please remind your students that they must be advised before they can register; the
                        registration system will not allow a degree-seeking student to register if he or she
                        has not been cleared by an advisor.
                     
                     
                     Encourage your students to print and review their class schedules before their first
                        day of classes. Building and room assignments are sometimes changed at the last minute.
                        Also, some students mistakenly sign up for course sections not realizing that they
                        are being offered at remote locations (Millington, Collierville, our Lambuth Campus
                        in Jackson, etc.) rather than the main campus. Let's make sure that everyone is where
                        he or she is supposed to be.
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Bursar's Office/Fee Payment
                     
                     Welcome new and returning students and parents!
                     
                     Spring Fee Payment Deadline is January 16 by 4:30 p.m . Do not let your students lose their classes by missing the fee payment deadline. Students who register for classes through January 16 will need to satisfy fee payment
                        requirements by the fee payment deadline above to avoid deletion of their registered
                        classes.
                     
                     
                     Please note that unless your student's financial aid, scholarship and/or sponsorship
                        covers 100% of their enrollment fees, remaining fees MUST be paid in full or through
                        the Installment Payment Plan (IPP) by the fee payment deadline. To take advantage
                        of the IPP, students pay a minimum 50% of the remaining balance and sign up for the
                        Installment Payment Plan (IPP) on TigerXpress. See full IPP details.
                     
                     
                     For additional Fee Payment Deadline Information and important dates and deadlines,
                        please refer to our Fee Payment Deadlines/Refunds/Important Dates calendar .
                     
                     
                     eRefunds
                     
                     The deadline to sign up for the initial eRefunds (direct deposit) is January 12, 2016 . Financial aid/scholarship awards will be disbursed daily through the end of the semester
                        after the initial eRefund noted above. The fastest way to receive excess financial
                        aid/scholarships is for students to sign up for eRefunds (direct deposit) on TigerXpress. eRefunds will post to the students' bank accounts beginning January
                        16, 2016.
                     
                     
                     Students who do not sign up for eRefunds will have their refund check mailed to the
                        mailing address on file with the University beginning January 23, 2016 . Please remind your student to sign up for eRefunds on TigerXpress through the Account $ tab on their myMemphis portal.
                     
                     
                     Campus (ID) Cards
                     
                     Students are encouraged to manage their Campus (ID) Card online 24/7. Some of the online options include:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Deactivate lost, misplaced, or stolen card to prevent unauthorized use
                        
                        Activate found card
                        
                        View card balance(s) and meal plan (if applicable)
                        
                        Add additional funds to card using a credit card
                        
                     
                     
                     The Campus Card Office is located in 115 Wilder Tower. We have a satellite office
                        at the Lambuth campus in the Business Service Center, 109 Varnell-Jones Hall. We are
                        open 8:00-4:30, Monday through Friday. Our phone number is 901-678-CARD (2273) and
                        our email address is campuscard@memphis.edu .
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Scholarships for Fall 2016 & Spring 2017
                     
                     The Tiger Scholarship Manager Application is available for the Fall 2016 & Spring
                        2017 semesters. The online application is available to all undergraduate, graduate, admitted freshmen, and admitted transfer
                        students. If your student has questions please have them contact the Scholarship Office
                        at 901-678-3213, or e-mail the office at scholarships@memphis.edu .
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Residence Life
                     
                     Spring 2016 Move-In
                     
                     Check In Dates:
                     
                     
                        
                        Thursday, January 14, 2016 1 PM - 4:30 PM
                        
                        Friday, January 15, 2016 1 PM - 4:30 PM
                        
                     
                     
                     Check In Locations
                     
                     
                        
                        Park Ave Apartments- Graduate and Student Family Housing
                        
                        Rawls or Smith Halls- The floor to which you have been assigned
                        
                        Centennial Place- Centennial Place Lobby
                        
                        South Hall- South Lobby
                        
                        Carpenter Complex- Carpenter Complex Community Building
                        
                        Living Learning Complex- Living Learning Complex Lobby
                        
                     
                     
                     To check in, students will need their UofM id or driver's license. 
                     
                     For more information, click here...
                     
                     All assigned rooms must be claimed by 4:30 PM on Friday, January 15, 2016. Residents
                        failing to properly check into their rooms by the above stated deadline will forfeit
                        their room assignment and will be responsible for a $450 cancellation fee. In order
                        to prevent the room from being forfeited and the cancellation fee, the student must
                        contact the Residence Life and Dining Services Office, Centennial Place Suite 175,
                        901-678-2295 and request to be placed on the Late Arrival's List if the student will
                        be late checking into the room.
                     
                     
                     Spring 2016 Room Change Thursday, January 21 and Friday, January 22
                     
                     
                     Meal Plan Information
                     
                     Meal plan cancellations for the spring semester must be made by January 15, 2016,
                        and any changes to the meal plans must be made by January 22, 2016.
                     
                     
                     Residents who have a meal plan and would like their $300 Dining Dollars applied to
                        the cost of their meal plans, may request this online.
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Student Services
                     
                     Tutoring 
                     
                     Tutoring @ ESP welcomes all new and returning students to study with us in 2016! Spring
                        semester is a wonderful time to focus on how to get better academically. Starting
                        today, your student can get a jump start on the semester by visiting the Academic
                        Enhancement Center (AEC) which is located in 207 Mitchell Hall. Dr. Ed Yancey, Learning
                        Specialist, is available 8:00am-4:30pm Monday through Friday for student consultations
                        on topics such as note taking, study skills, time management, etc. For more information
                        or to schedule a consultation, contact Dr. Yancey via email at eyancey@memphis.edu or via phone at 901.678.5226.
                     
                     
                     Beginning January 25th, ESP tutors for all subjects will be available starting at 8:00am to 10:00pm. Schedules may vary at our ten (10) different learning
                        centers. On the main campus, evening tutoring is available at learning centers in
                        Centennial Residence Hall, Living Learning Complex, and Community Health Building.
                        Tutoring@ESP satellite learning centers are located at the Collierville and Lambuth,
                        with plans being developed for Millington. Students are encouraged to study, whether
                        alone or with other students, at the learning centers.
                     
                     
                     For more information regarding Tutoring @ ESP, or any of its services and programs,
                        contact Dr. Barbara Bekis, Coordinator, at 901.678.2704, bbekis@memphis.edu
                     
                     
                     Visit the Tutoring @ ESP website for learning center Spring 2016 schedules.
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Commencement
                     
                     Spring Commencement 2016 Saturday, May 7, 2016
                     
                     
                     10:00 am:
                     
                     
                        
                        College of Arts & Sciences
                        
                        Communication and Fine Arts
                        
                        University College
                        
                        Doctoral Candidates for these colleges.
                        
                     
                     
                     2:30 pm:
                     
                     
                        
                        Fogelman College of Business and Economics
                        
                        Kemmons Wilson of Hospitality and Resort Management
                        
                        College of Education
                        
                        School of Health Studies
                        
                        Herff College of Engineering,
                        
                        Loewenberg College of Nursing
                        
                        School of Public Health
                        
                        School of Communication Sciences and Disorders
                        
                        Doctoral Candidates for these colleges and schools.
                        
                     
                     
                     Backup Date: SUNDAY, May 8, 2016 at 12:00 PM and 4:30 PM. Read more in our News Section .
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Career Services
                     
                     Build a Better Resume for Internship and Career Success Is your student equipped with the necessary materials to achieve career success? Whether
                        your student is a freshman or a graduating senior, developing a resume is a vital
                        component of career preparation. The job market is competitive; employers are seeking
                        candidates who have academic background and skills to meet their hiring needs. Therefore,
                        student career success is more important today than ever before. The Career Services office would like to encourage your student to develop or enhance his or her resume. Through
                        individual appointments or the online TigerLink system , Career Services staff can assist your student to ensure that his or her resume is
                        targeted, clear, and position specific. Please visit us online or give us a call at 901.678.2239 to learn more. We look forward to working with
                        your student!
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Student Health Center
                     
                     The Health Center is open M-F for our students' convenience. Students are seen on
                        a walk-in basis, and there is no charge to be seen by our Nurse Practitioners. We
                        also have a laboratory, x-ray facilities and a small dispensary where students can
                        purchase some over-the-counter medicines and prescriptions written by our providers.
                        Health and Nutrition Education is also housed in the Health Center and students may
                        contact the staff for help with health related projects, speakers, programs and individual
                        interviews.
                     
                     
                     The Shelby County Health Department has Family Planning Services in the Health Center
                        on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Exams, birth control, STD testing, pregnancy testing,
                        Plan B and healthy lifestyle information is offered. Students do need an appointment
                        – 901-678-2643 or 901-678-5687 for birth control. Free condoms are always available
                        in the Health Center restrooms.
                     
                     
                     Flu Shots will be offered by Methodist Healthcare nurses, on campus, one last time for this
                        semester on January 20 in the UC Lobby from 11 am – 1 pm. Payment may be made by using
                        your medical insurance (bring your card) or paying $22. We highly recommend that all
                        students get immunized for influenza.
                     
                     
                     Memphis Healthy U is having the 2016 KICK-OFF with "Dancing with the TIGERS" on January 27 in the UC
                        Lobby at 11:30. Come show us your moves and be part of our music video. Free healthy
                        living events throughout the semester. Learn more ...
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Technology for Students
                     
                     Looking for Software or a Computer for your student? The University of Memphis has negotiated with several software vendors to provide
                        special pricing for personal purchases by students in the following programs.
                     
                     
                     General Software: Purchase popular software packages at unbelievably low prices online. All University
                        of Memphis students are able to purchase discounted software for use on their personal
                        computer. General Discount Software Store.
                     
                     Microsoft Products : Did you know Microsoft Office Suite is available at no cost in PC and Mac platforms
                        for your currently enrolled student? The software includes Word, Excel, PowerPoint,
                        Outlook and OneNote. Office is a great tool for completing coursework and assignments.
                        Your student can download a copy of the software to their computer or laptop. To learn
                        more about downloading Microsoft Office, have your student visit the Office website.
                     
                     Adobe Products: Adobe products are available to be purchased by students at deeply discounted prices!
                        This opportunity is for personal sales only and are to be used on personal computers.
                        Adobe Store
                     
                     Apple Products: Software associated with Apple is available for purchase by students at discounted
                        prices. This is only available for personal sales and for use only on personal computers.
                        The Apple Store for Education.
                     
                     To learn more about student success, visit our website .
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Involvement Opportunities 
                     
                     Join in January: Join in January is an opportunity for Registered Student Organizations to connect
                        with potential new members in the Spring semester. This year, the event will take
                        place from 10:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. on Tuesday, January 26th in the University Center
                        Ballrooms on the 3rd floor.
                     
                     
                     For any questions, please contact Jessie Wortham at jessie.wortham@memphis.edu .
                     
                     
                     Study Abroad
                     
                     Study Abroad Fair
                     
                     Hear from past program participants. Ask faculty questions about particular destinations.
                     
                     Learn about financial aid and scholarship opportunities.
                     
                     Win one of three $1000 scholarships toward a U of M study abroad trip!
                     
                     When: January 27 from 10:00 am - 2:00 pm Where: University Center Ballroom
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     General News
                     
                     UofM Will Celebrate Opening of New Residence Hall Jan. 19. The $53 million facility was funded by state bonds paid through rent. Centennial
                        Place features a modern design with plenty of green spaces, private study areas, classrooms,
                        study rooms and collaboration areas. Read more...
                     
                     Athletics 
                     
                     For athletic schedules, click here .
                     
                     
                     To purchase tickets to UofM sporting events, click here .
                     
                     
                     M. Basketball:  Memphis freshman Dedric Lawson has been named the American Athletic Conference Rookie
                        of the Week for the fourth time this season, as Shaq Lawson was named to the AAC Honor
                        Roll. Read more...
                     
                     M. Tennis:  The University of Memphis men's tennis team began preparations for the 2016 spring
                        dual season with a three-day tournament at Florida Gulf Coast over the weekend. Read more...
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Fun Fact & Quote
                     
                     Fun Fact: As we start our Spring semester, here are all the reasons that 2016 will be a happy
                        and health New Year and the UofM! Click here to view welcome video . 
                     
                     
                     Quote: "A dream you dream alone is only a dream. A dream you dream together is reality."
                        - John Lennon
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Communication
                        
                           
                              
                              UMparent E-news
                              Prospective Parent E-news
                              Parent Chats
                              Tiger Text
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Got questions, comments, or concerns?  We're here to help!
                           
                           
                              Parent & Family E-news
                              Stay in touch electronically by subscribing to our E-News.
                           
                           
                              Parent & Family Handbook
                              Learn about opportunities and services available to students.
                           
                           
                              In the Now
                              What you need to know this month to help you help your student
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/7/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/communication/enews_jan16.php
