http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/communication/enews_nov15.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   		
      	
      		
      
      
      		
      		
      
      
      	
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Parent & Family Services
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Events
                        Communication
                        Resources
                        Get Involved
                        Give Back
                        Visit UofM
                     
                     
                        
                           Communication
                           
                              
                                 
                                 UMparent E-news
                                 Prospective Parent E-news
                                 Parent Chats
                                 Tiger Text
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Parent & Family Services
                              	
                        
                              	Communication
                              	
                        Parent & Family E-News: November/December 2015
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Parent & Family E-news: November/December 2015
                     
                     Winding Down...
                     
                     By this time of the year, exams and papers may begin piling up. Students can sometimes
                        acquire poor eating or sleeping habits, increased stress and other factors that may
                        require the help of the Student Health Center. Keep in mind that an active mind needs
                        a healthy body, so encourage your student to find ways of relieving stress, keeping
                        active and staying healthy while at college.
                     
                     
                     Remember, there are people at the UofM who want to help. Parents and students should
                        talk about challenges that come up.
                     
                     
                     What Parents Can Do...
                     
                     
                        
                        Be there! Students will often turn to the safety of family when times are tough, and
                           it is important to know that you will always be there for them.
                        
                        
                        Encourage your student to make time for exercise, healthy meals, and sleep.
                        
                        If your student is feeling physically ill, encourage a visit to the Student Health Center for a medical checkup.
                        
                        
                        Make sure your student has registered for the spring semester.
                        
                     
                     
                     Important Upcoming Dates
                     
                     To stay up to date on all upcoming dates and deadlines, please check out our UMparent
                        calendar.
                     
                     
                     November 25-29: Thanksgiving Break November 28: Football vs. SMU at the Liberty Bowl or watch live on ESPNews at 11:00
                        am December 2: Last Day of Classes December 3: Study Day December 4-10: Exams December 11: Residence Hall Check out December 13: Fall 2015 Commencement December 24-January 3: Holiday Break (University Closed)
                     
                     
                     For more upcoming dates, click here.
                     
                     For Parents
                     
                     Student Stress and the "Winter Blues"
                     
                     To counteract the lows, advise your student to:
                     
                     
                        
                        Eat whole, unprocessed foods
                        
                        Get some sleep
                        
                        Break up large tasks into small ones
                        
                        Focus on one thing at a time
                        
                        Spend time with other people
                        
                        Put off important decisions until he feels better
                        
                        Engage in physical activity
                        
                        Revisit activities he used to enjoy
                        
                     
                     
                     Read more. .. (UniversityParent)
                     
                     
                     Parent & Family Weekend
                     
                     Thank you to everyone who joined us for Parent & Family Weekend! We hope you had a
                        wonderful time visiting your student and our beautiful campus. If you would like to
                        view and download the photos taken during the weekend, please click here . We look forward to seeing everyone again next year for this great event!
                     
                     
                     We Want to Know....
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              Why did you not attend Parent & Family Weekend?
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Prior Obligations that weekend
                                 
                                 Too expensive
                                 
                                 Not interested in participating in this event
                                 
                                 Student unable to attend with me
                                 
                                 Not a good value
                                 
                                 Other
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              Free Poll creator
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Essential Services
                     
                     Registrar
                     
                     Fall 2015 Final Exams Final exams begin Friday, December 4 and run through Thursday, December 10. View
                        the Fall 2015 Final Exams Schedule.
                     
                     Parents and Grades Students will be able to view their final, official Fall 2015 grades online beginning
                        Thursday, December 17. So, they will also be able to show you their grades starting
                        on that date.
                     
                     
                     But is there some way you, instead of my student, can show me his or her grades? This
                        may surprise you, but No, we aren’t allowed to do this. Federal law prevents us from
                        releasing a student's education record to anyone but the student unless (1) we have
                        the student’s written consent to do so, or (2) you can show us that your student is
                        still a dependent for federal income tax purposes. The specific law is the Family
                        Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA).
                     
                     
                     We recommend that you follow this procedure and that you talk to your student at each
                        stage:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Ask your student to show you his or her grades on Student Self Service in MyMemphis.
                        
                        If this isn't practical, ask your student to complete a “Student Consent to Release
                           Education Record” form that would permit the Registrar to release a copy of the grades
                           to you. For further information, including a link to the form, see Student Consent to Release Education Record.
                        
                        If your student is unwilling to complete the consent form, you can complete a “Request
                           for Disclosure of Education Record Information” form, provided your student is a dependent
                           for tax purposes. For further information, including a link to the form, see Parent Access to Student Education Record.
                        
                     
                     
                      Spring 2016 Registration Spring registration is now underway. If your students plan to register for Spring,
                        they should do so shortly to avoid paying late fees. View Spring registration dates and deadlines.
                     
                     Bursar/Campus Card Office
                     
                     Spring 2016 registration is up and running! Students who have outstanding debts may
                        have a hold on their student account, which will prevent them from registering or
                        accessing grades.
                     
                     
                     Students should check their accounts online on TigerXpress.
                     
                     For important fee payment deadlines and other important information, please visit
                        our website .
                     
                     
                     Students may request a refund of their unused fall 2015 Dining Dollars November 30
                        through December 11 online at the Campus Card website.
                     
                     
                     Fee Payment Deadline for Spring 2016 is January 15, 2016.
                     
                     Spring fees will be available for viewing on TigerXpress beginning November 23, 2015.
                     
                     eBills (fee invoices) will be available online on TigerXpress beginning December 8,
                        2015.  Emails and/or text messages (if signed up on TigerXpress) will be sent to students
                        and authorized users notifying them when eBills are available.  Students remain responsible
                        for completing the fee payment process by the appropriate fee payment deadline, even
                        if they do not receive or open the fee invoice.
                     
                     
                     Students will be able to sign up for the spring 2016 Installment Payment Plan on TigerXpress
                        beginning December 8, 2015.
                     
                     
                     Encourage your student to enroll in eRefunds (direct deposit) on TigerXpress to obtain
                        the earliest refund of spring excess financial aid/scholarship.  Students should sign
                        up for direct deposit no later than January 11, 2016 for funds to be disbursed by
                        direct deposit.
                     
                     
                     Students can enroll you as an Authorized User so that you can receive email notification when invoices are available.  You can
                        also view and pay the outstanding balances on TigerXpress!
                     
                     
                     Scholarships for Fall 2016 & Spring 2017
                     
                     The Tiger Scholarship Manager Application is available for the Fall 2016 & Spring
                        2017 semesters. The online application is available to all undergraduate, graduate, admitted freshmen, and admitted transfer
                        students. If your student has questions please have them contact the Scholarship Office
                        at 901-678-3213, or e-mail the office at scholarships@memphis.edu .
                     
                     
                     Residence Life
                     
                     Fall 2015 Closing
                     
                     The University of Memphis residence halls will close for the Semester Break on Friday,
                        December 11, 2015, at 3 PM. All residents are required to leave the residence halls
                        24 hours after their final exam, unless they are involved in Commencement Exercises.
                        They must make arrangements with the AAC of their building on or before Wednesday,
                        December 9, 2015.
                     
                     
                     Residents of Carpenter Complex, Park Ave. Apartments, and the Living Learning Complex
                        do not have to vacate their rooms during the Semester Break unless their Spring 2015
                        room assignment has been canceled.
                     
                     
                     Residents required to vacate their rooms during Semester Break will not be allowed
                        to remain or be readmitted to the buildings during the Semester Break. The residence
                        hall staff will not be available to permit reentry into the buildings after closing.
                     
                     
                     Residents of Richardson Towers, Rawls, Smith, Mynders and South, are required to sign
                        up for an appointment to check out and surrender their room keys to their resident
                        advisors before they leave.
                     
                     
                     Students who are not returning to the residence halls in the Spring must officially
                        check out of the room no later than 3 PM on December 11 and cancel in writing with
                        the Residence Life and Dining Services Office in Richardson Towers.
                     
                     
                     Students who are returning for the Spring are not required to remove their belongings
                        from their rooms during the break; however, they should take all valuables and possessions
                        needed during this time period.
                     
                     
                     The buildings will reopen at 1:00 PM on January 14, 2015.
                     
                     Spring 2016 Check-In Dates
                     
                     Thursday, January 14 and Friday, January 15, 1:00 pm – 4:30 pm
                     
                     All assigned rooms must be claimed by 4:30 PM on Friday, January 15, 2015. Residents
                        failing to properly check into their rooms by the above stated deadline will forfeit
                        their room assignment and their $200 rent prepayment. In order to prevent the room
                        and rent prepayment from being forfeited, the student must contact the Residence Life
                        and Dining Services Office, 011 Richardson Towers, 901-678-2295 and request to be
                        placed on the Late Arrival's List if the student will be late checking into the room.
                     
                     
                     Spring 2016 Room Change
                     
                     Thursday, January 21 and Friday, January 22
                     
                     Student Services
                     
                     Commencement
                     
                     Fall 2015 Commencement, Sunday, December 13, 2015, FedEx Forum
                     
                     12:00 pm
                     
                     
                        
                        Law School
                        
                        College of Arts & Sciences
                        
                        College of Communication and Fine Arts
                        
                        University College
                        
                        Doctoral Candidates for these colleges
                        
                     
                     
                     4:30 pm
                     
                     
                        
                        Fogelman College of Business and Economics
                        
                        Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management
                        
                        College of Education
                        
                        Herff College of Engineering
                        
                        Loewenberg School of Nursing
                        
                        School of Public Health
                        
                        School of Communication Sciences and Disorders
                        
                        Doctoral Candidates for these colleges and schools
                        
                     
                     
                     Students should arrive 1 hour prior to the event start for lineup.
                     
                     Cap and Gown Distribution
                     
                     
                        
                        Thursday, December 10, 2015, 8:30 am-6:00 pm
                        
                        Friday, December 11, 2015-8:30 am-4:00 pm
                        
                        University Center Ballroom
                        
                     
                     
                     Career Services
                     
                     TigerLink System :  If your student is seeking advancement in professional and career development encourage
                        them to take full advantage of the resources available on the new TigerLink system . The new TigerLink system provides currently enrolled students and graduates of the
                        University with access to job and internship listings, online resume and cover letter
                        critique, online mock interview preparation, and appointment scheduling. Currently
                        enrolled students gain access by utilizing their UofM username and password.
                     
                     
                     Graduates of the University should contact the Career Services office at careerservices@memphis.edu to set up alumni access. 
                     
                     
                     Tiger Dining
                     
                     Spring Meal Plans
                     
                     As a reminder, Flex Bucks roll over from fall to spring semester only when you sign
                        up for a spring meal plan.  Residents are auto-enrolled on your current meal plan. 
                        Commuters may sign up for a spring meal plan here .
                     
                     
                     For questions about meal plans, please e-mail tigerdining@memphis.edu
                     
                     Technology for Students
                     
                     Looking for Software or a Computer for your student? The University of Memphis has negotiated with several software vendors to provide
                        special pricing for personal purchases by students in the following programs.
                     
                     
                     General Software: Purchase popular software packages at unbelievably low prices online. All University
                        of Memphis students are able to purchase discounted software for use on their personal
                        computer. General Discount Software Store.
                     
                     Microsoft Products : Did you know Microsoft Office Suite is available at no cost in PC and Mac platforms
                        for your currently enrolled student? The software includes Word, Excel, PowerPoint,
                        Outlook and OneNote. Office is a great tool for completing coursework and assignments.
                        Your student can download a copy of the software to their computer or laptop. To learn
                        more about downloading Microsoft Office, have your student visit the Office website.
                     
                     Adobe Products: Adobe products are available to be purchased by students at deeply discounted prices!
                        This opportunity is for personal sales only and are to be used on personal computers.
                        Adobe Store
                     
                     Apple Products: Software associated with Apple is available for purchase by students at discounted
                        prices. This is only available for personal sales and for use only on personal computers.
                        The Apple Store for Education.
                     
                     To learn more about student success, visit our website .
                     
                     
                     University News
                     
                     General Campus News
                     
                     UofM Named to List of 2016 Military Friendly Schools.  Victory Media, originator of the Military Friendly group of education and career
                        resources for veterans and their families, has included the University of Memphis
                        on its Military Friendly Schools list for 2016. The list honors the top colleges,
                        universities and trade schools that are doing the most to embrace military service
                        members and veterans as students and ensure their success on campus. Read more...
                     
                     League of American Bicyclists Names UofM a Bicycle Friendly University  The League of American Bicyclists has awarded the University of Memphis the designation
                        of Bicycle Friendly University (BFU) at the bronze level. Read more...
                     
                     Athletics
                     
                     Click here for all athletic sport schedules. Make sure you have your ticket! Click here to purchase tickets!
                     
                     
                     Football:  CROSS NAMED SEMI-FINALIST FOR BURLSWORTH TROPHY Award recognizes most outstanding
                        football player to begin career as a walk-on. Read more...
                     
                     Rifle:  TIGERS RIFLE JUMPS TO NO. 7 IN NATIONAL POLL Memphis makes five-spot climb this week.
                        Read more...
                     
                     Fun Fact & Quote
                     
                     Fun Fact: Check out the Memphis Minute on the UofM Youtube.
                     
                     
                     Quote: " Life is a story. Make yours a best seller." -Unknown
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Communication
                        
                           
                              
                              UMparent E-news
                              Prospective Parent E-news
                              Parent Chats
                              Tiger Text
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Got questions, comments, or concerns?  We're here to help!
                           
                           
                              Parent & Family E-news
                              Stay in touch electronically by subscribing to our E-News.
                           
                           
                              Parent & Family Handbook
                              Learn about opportunities and services available to students.
                           
                           
                              In the Now
                              What you need to know this month to help you help your student
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 2/8/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/communication/enews_nov15.php
