http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/communication/enews_oct15.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   		
      	
      		
      
      
      		
      		
      
      
      	
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Parent & Family Services
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Events
                        Communication
                        Resources
                        Get Involved
                        Give Back
                        Visit UofM
                     
                     
                        
                           Communication
                           
                              
                                 
                                 UMparent E-news
                                 Prospective Parent E-news
                                 Parent Chats
                                 Tiger Text
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Parent & Family Services
                              	
                        
                              	Communication
                              	
                        October E-News
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Parent & Family News: October 2015 
                     
                     CONQUER THE MID-SEMESTER HUMP
                     
                     In mid semester, students begin experiencing exciting and challenging situations that
                        they need to learn to handle on their own. As a parent, try to avoid rushing in; instead,
                        think of the college experience as your student's job. Offer support, answer questions
                        and point them toward the right resources. Parents should take the opportunity to
                        help their student become more independent.
                     
                     
                     What Parents Can Do...
                     
                     
                        
                        Encourage your student to ask for help when needed.
                        
                        Make sure your student sets time aside to study. Remind your student about free tutoring
                           services offered by the U of M's Educational Support Program .
                        
                        
                        Students who consider dropping classes should remember their financial aid status,
                           scholarship status (including HOPE).
                        
                        
                        Remind your student to see his or her advisor before spring registration , which will begin on November 9th.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     IMPORTANT UPCOMING DATES
                     
                     To stay up to date on all upcoming dates and deadlines, please check out our UMparent calendar .
                     
                     
                     October 23: Football vs. Tulsa (away) watch live on ESPN @ 7:00CT
                     
                     October 27: 2nd Term Students Last Day to Drop Classes
                     
                     October 29-November 2: Parent and Family Weekend (onsite registration will be available)
                     
                     October 31: Football vs Tulane (Liberty Bowl) watch live on CBS Sports @ 6:00CT
                     
                     November 1: 2nd Installment Fee Payment Deadline
                     
                     November 7: Football vs Navy (Liberty Bowl) Homecoming (game time TBA)
                     
                     November 9: Registration Begins
                     
                     November 11: Veteran's Day
                     
                     November 14: Football vs Houston (away)
                     
                     FOR PARENTS
                     
                     Parent and Family Weekend 2015 October 30-November 1st : Whether you are a local or from outside the Mid-South, Parent & Family Weekend is
                        a wonderful time to visit with your student, see their favorite places and get to
                        know the University even more. You will also have the opportunity to meet other parents
                        and families, University faculty and staff and have your questions answered. Click here to register and for more information! On-Site Registration will be available.
                     
                     
                     Finals Care Packages: Surprise and support your student during finals with a care package from Parent &
                        Family Services and Residence Life! Packages will include a University of Memphis
                        memorabilia item, snacks, spirit items and more to help them through finals. Packages
                        can be delivered to students at the Main and Lambuth Campuses. Click here to order! Deadline to order is Friday, November 13. Please email us at parents@memphis.edu if you have any questions.
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Essential Services
                     
                     Registrar
                     
                     Spring 2016 Classes and Calendars
                     
                     Spring registration opens November 9; however, not every student can register on this
                        date. Students may view their first day to register by going to the Registrar's Spring 2016 Dates and Deadlines calendar .
                     
                     
                     Also, to assist with course schedule planning, a "View Only" version of the Spring
                        2016 class offerings is now available to students through the myMemphis portal . Please note, however, that this is a draft version of the class listings and is
                        still subject to minor modifications.
                     
                     
                     Bursar/Campus Card
                     
                     Upcoming deadlines/key dates : We have officially come to the mid-point for Fall 2015 semester and have just a few
                        weeks left until the end of the semester and finals.
                     
                     
                     Spring 2016 registration begins November 9, 2016. Bursar registration holds will be set by November 6, 2015 for students who have an
                        outstanding debt at that time. Students should check their accounts online through
                        TigerXpress to ensure that they do not have charges that would prevent them from registering.
                     
                     
                     The second installment fee payment deadline is approaching quickly for students who enrolled in the Installment Payment Plan for the fall semester. November 1 is the  2nd Installment Fee Payment Deadline for students who utilized the Installment Payment Plan for the Fall 2015 term.  Note: November 1 falls on a Sunday this year. In person payments are due by 4:30pm
                           on 10/30/15. TigerXpress payments are due 11/01/15.
                     
                     If you are an authorized user , you can access your student's account to view/pay fees through the Parent/Authorized User Access log in on our website.
                     
                     
                     Student Services
                     
                     Commencement
                     
                     Fall 2015 Commencement, Sunday, December 13, 2015, FedEx Forum
                     
                     
                        
                        12:00 pm
                           
                           
                              
                              Law School
                              
                              College of Arts & Sciences
                              
                              College of Communication and Fine Arts
                              
                              University College
                              
                              Doctoral Candidates for these colleges
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        4:30 pm
                           
                           
                              
                              Fogelman College of Business and Economics
                              
                              Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management
                              
                              College of Education
                              
                              Herff College of Engineering
                              
                              Loewenberg School of Nursing
                              
                              School of Public Health
                              
                              School of Communication Sciences and Disorders
                              
                              Doctoral Candidates for these colleges and schools
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Students should arrive 1 hour prior to the event start for lineup.
                     
                     Cap and Gown Distribution
                     
                     
                        
                        Thursday, December 10, 2015, 8:30 am-6:00 pm
                        
                        Friday, December 11, 2015-8:30 am-4:00 pm
                        
                        University Center Ballroom
                        
                     
                     
                     Student Health Center
                     
                     It is the season for pumpkins, fall leaves and flu shots! Methodist Le Bonheur Healthcare
                        nurses are coming to campus several times in the next month and will immunize your
                        student for $22. They will take BCBS, Cigna, Aetna, or Medicare insurance cards, checks
                        or cash as payment. Please encourage your student to be immunized against the seasonal
                        flu this fall. A email to students will be sent out with a full list of dates and
                        times. 
                     
                     
                     Information and Technology
                     
                     Looking for Software or a Computer for your student? The University of Memphis has negotiated with several software vendors to provide
                        special pricing for personal purchases by students in the following programs.
                     
                     
                     General Software: Purchase popular software packages at unbelievably low prices online. All University
                        of Memphis students are able to purchase discounted software for use on their personal
                        computer. General Discount Software Store .
                     
                     
                     Microsoft Products: Did you know Microsoft Office Suite is available at no cost in PC and Mac platforms
                        for your currently enrolled student? The software includes Word, Excel, PowerPoint,
                        Outlook and OneNote. Office is a great tool for completing coursework and assignments.
                        Your student can download a copy of the software to their computer or laptop. To learn
                        more about downloading Microsoft Office, have your student visit the Office website .
                     
                     
                     Adobe Products : Adobe products are available to be purchased by students at deeply discounted prices!
                        This opportunity is for personal sales only and are to be used on personal computers.
                        Adobe Store
                     
                     Apple Products: Software associated with Apple is available for purchase by students at discounted
                        prices. This is only available for personal sales and for use only on personal computers. The Apple Store for Education .
                     
                     
                     To learn more about student success, visit our website .
                     
                     
                     University News
                     
                     Alumni Association Events
                     
                     Mark your calendars for a special Blue Lantern Tour on Friday, October 30 at 7:00 pm on the UofM Main Campus. The UofM Student Ambassador
                        Board invites students, alumni, family and friends to go back in time to learn about
                        the mysteries and characters that make up our campus history. This event will feature
                        lantern-lit tours around the campus. The lantern tours will be led by blue-lantern
                        carrying guides from the Student Ambassador Board. The tours begin in the Student
                        Plaza and will take place from 7:00-8:30 pm. Guests will have the opportunity to "meet"
                        President Mynders and his ghostly daughter, the Memphis State 8, Elma Roane and many
                        others. In addition to the tours, there will be entertainment, refreshments, music
                        and activities as part of Parent & Family Weekend. For more information, contact alumni
                        association@memphis.edu or 901.678.2586.
                     
                     
                     Let the Good Times Roar! UofM Homecoming Week is November 1-7. Kick off Homecoming Week with the Young Alumni True Blue 5k on Sunday, November 1
                        at 2:00 pm on the UofM campus. The annual Homecoming Parade will be held on Friday,
                        November 6 at 5:30 pm, followed by the Homecoming Pep Rally! Join the Alumni Association
                        on Tiger Lane on Saturday, November 7 for a True Blue Tailgate before the Tigers take
                        on the Navy Midshipmen at the Homecoming Game. Be sure to visit our website for more information on Homecoming events.
                     
                     
                     "Let the Good Times Roar" Homecoming Parade & Pep Rally Friday, November 6, 5:30 pm UofM Main Campus "Laissez Les Bons Temps Rugir!" Enter your organization to participate in the "Mardi
                        Gras" Homecoming Parade and help us light the night by incorporating your best glow-in-the-dark
                        attire and float decorations. Share the fun with the crowd by throwing neon goodies!
                        Immediately following the Parade, join us on the Student Plaza for a True Blue Pep
                        Rally. Click here to register for the parade. For more information, contact kjfalk@memphis.edu or at 901.678.2905.
                     
                     
                     General Campus News
                     
                     University of Memphis posts 7% increase in research awards in fiscal 2015:  As you know, the University of Memphis is committed to growing our research, creative,
                        and scholarly activity. As an update, U of M faculty brought in more than $53 million
                        in external funding for research and sponsored programs during the 2014-15 academic
                        year, achieving a 7% gain over 2013-14 totals. Computer science, fueled by signature
                        achievements in data science research tied to mobile health sensors and continued
                        strength in cybersecurity and network research, accounts for the largest gains. As
                        mentioned in a tweet last week, Dr. Phil Bourne of NIH made the following comment
                        in reference to our MD2K Center; "I've never seen a Center of Excellence achieve more
                        in its first year". The consistently high performing areas of interdisciplinary learning
                        sciences, behavioral health, bioscience and engineering, and transportation also provided
                        strong contributions despite an increasingly challenging and competitive funding environment.
                        Equally noteworthy are smaller, but significant gains in dollars associated with Philosophy
                        research fellowships, and a Major Research Instrumentation grant from the National
                        Science Foundation, which will expand capabilities in Chemistry.
                     
                     
                     ATHLETICS
                     
                     Click here for all athletic sport schedules. Make sure you have your ticket! Click here to purchase tickets!
                     
                     
                     Football:  FOOTBALL APPEARING IN BOTH NATIONAL POLLS FOR FIRST TIME IN HISTORY. The Tigers are
                        currently ranked No. 17 in the Amway Coaches' Poll, the third straight week Memphis
                        has been ranked in the top 25 by the college coaches. Now, after Saturday's 37-24
                        win over Ole Miss, Memphis is also ranked No. 18 in the Associated Press top 25 poll.
                        Read more...
                     
                     W. Volleyball:  Volleyball Adds Another 3-2 Road Win to List. Two straight road matches, two straight
                        come-from-behind five-set victories for the University of Memphis volleyball team
                        (13-8, 4-4 American). Read more...
                     
                     Fun Fact & Quote
                     
                     Fun Fact: Check out the video "Sights and Sounds- Tigers Defeat Ole Miss" here . 
                     
                     
                     Quote : "What we learn with pleasure we never forget" - Alfred Mercier
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Communication
                        
                           
                              
                              UMparent E-news
                              Prospective Parent E-news
                              Parent Chats
                              Tiger Text
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Got questions, comments, or concerns?  We're here to help!
                           
                           
                              Parent & Family E-news
                              Stay in touch electronically by subscribing to our E-News.
                           
                           
                              Parent & Family Handbook
                              Learn about opportunities and services available to students.
                           
                           
                              In the Now
                              What you need to know this month to help you help your student
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 2/8/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/communication/enews_oct15.php
