http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/resources/enews_may15.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Parent & Family Services
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Events
                        Communication
                        Resources
                        Get Involved
                        Give Back
                        Visit UofM
                     
                     
                        
                           Resources
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Parent Handbook
                                       FAQs
                                       Academics at UofM
                                       Student Records
                                       Student Life
                                       Health & Safety
                                       Financial Information
                                    
                                 
                                 I Want To
                                 In the Now
                                 Vocabulary
                                       UofM Vocabulary
                                       College Vocabulary
                                    
                                 
                                 Publications
                                 Parents of…
                                       Future Students
                                       Freshmen
                                       Transfer
                                       Commuter
                                       Out of State
                                       Seniors
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Parent & Family Services
                              	
                        
                              	Resources
                              	
                        UMparents E-news: May 2015 Edition
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     UMparents E-news: May 2015 Edition
                     
                       MAKE THE MOST OF THE SUMMER....
                     
                     
                     The time to plan for the future is now. If your student did not do as well academically
                        as he or she had hoped to do during finals, encourage your student to evaluate the
                        year. Look for ways he or she can improve next year.
                     
                     
                     Students should be proud of their accomplishments and use them to motivate themselves
                        as they continue their college career.
                     
                     
                     What Parents Can Do...
                     
                     
                        
                        If your student is enrolled in the summer semester, talk about the importance of effective
                           time management.
                        
                        
                        Encourage your student to keep his or her summer job or internship.
                        
                        Evaluate the need for changes in time management and/or balance of time devoted to
                           school, work and recreation.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                       CALENDAR AND DATES
                     
                     
                     To stay up to date on all upcoming dates and deadlines, please check out our UMparent calendar .
                     
                     May 25: Memorial Day (University Closed)
                     
                     May 29: 1st and Full Summer Semester Fee Payment Deadline
                     
                     May 29: First Session Residence Hall Check In (1PM-4PM)
                     
                     June 1: First Day of Summer Classes
                     
                     June 1: Residence Hall Fall 2015 Cancellation Deadline 
                     
                     June 14: Flag Day
                     
                     June 21: Father's Day
                     
                     Top
                     
                     General News
                     
                     Parent and Family Weekend October 30-November 1, 2015:  Whether you are a local or from outside the Mid-South, Parent & Family Weekend is
                        a wonderful time to visit with your student, see their favorite places and get to
                        know the University even more. You will also have the opportunity to meet other parents
                        and families, University faculty and staff and have your questions answered. The weekend
                        will include the Tiger Football game vs. Tulane University, tailgate party with food,
                        Welcome Reception, Brunch, Packet Pickup Party and other on-campus events.The first
                        100 registrants will receive a special UofM memorabilia item in their bag at check
                        in!  Click here for more information and to register!
                     
                     Princeton Review Ranks UofM's Online MBA Program Among Nation's Top 25 . The Princeton Review has ranked the University of Memphis' Online MBA program among
                        the top 25 in the nation. The Fogelman College of Business & Economics program was
                        ranked No. 23 based on the first comprehensive survey of business school administrators
                        and students taking online MBA courses. Read more...
                     
                     University of Memphis Creates JD/MPH Degree Program . Public health, public policy and issues of health disparities are at the forefront
                        of many of America's unresolved social problems. Rising health care costs pose a growing
                        threat to the economy, while for some access to even the most basic health care is
                        tenuous. Lawyers play a central role in society's approach to these public health
                        issues. However, their effectiveness is frequently limited by an inadequate knowledge
                        of public health matters. To close that educational gap, the University of Memphis
                        has created the JD/MPH program. Read more...
                     
                     Alumni Association Superhero 5K: Save the date for the UofM Alumni Association's inaugural Superhero 5k and 400 meter
                        dash on Friday, June 19, at 7 pm on the UofM Campus. Featuring: special "super" guests,
                        costume contest, superhero games and refreshments. For more information, visit the
                        Superhero 5K website .
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                       Registrar's Office
                     
                     
                     Summer 2015 Classes : The Summer's 1st Half, Full, and Regents parts of term (POTs) will be starting soon.
                        Registration closing dates are dependent on the course and what part of the term it
                        is in. Click here to view the Summer 2015 Dates and Deadlines calendar for a full list of
                           dates .
                     
                     
                     Fall 2015 Registration:  Fall registration has been open since April 6. For registration deadlines, refer
                        to the Fall 2014 Dates and Deadlines calendar .
                     
                     
                     Fall 2015 Graduation:  If your student intends to graduate in December, he or she should file an "Intent
                        to Graduate" form by July 15. This form is available in the Dean's Office of the college
                        of your student's major and should be filed with that office.
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                       Bursar's Office
                     
                     
                     Registration for Summer and Fall 2015 is in full swing! Students should check their
                        accounts online on TigerXpress (through the Account$ tab on the myMemphis portal) to ensure that they do not have a hold on registration or grades due to outstanding
                        debt.
                     
                     
                     Tuition and fees for the 2015-2016 academic year will be finalized by the Tennessee
                           Board of Regents by the first week of July. eBills will be available online through TigerXpress in late July for Fall registrations . Emails will be sent to students and authorized users, notifying them when eBills
                        are available.
                     
                     
                     Fees can be paid online on TigerXpress by either credit card or echeck for summer registration.
                     
                     
                     The Summer Fee Payment Deadline is May 29, 2015, by 4:30 p.m. to avoid the deletion
                           of all summer classes. Please visit our Summer Fee Payment Deadline Calendar for additional information.
                     
                     The deadline to enroll in eRefunds (direct deposit) on TigerXpress for earliest refund of summer excess financial aid/scholarship
                        is May 25, 2015 . Excess financial aid/scholarships for summer will be direct deposited beginning May 29, 2015 . If your student is expecting to receive excess financial aid/scholarship, please
                        encourage them to enroll in eRefunds as soon as possible to prepare for any summer
                        fee adjustments and for fall financial aid/scholarship refunds/fee adjustments.
                     
                     
                     Your student can enroll you as an Authorized User to enable you to receive email notification
                        when invoices are available. If you are an authorized user, you can access your student's
                        account on TigerXpress to view/pay fees through the Parents/Authorized Users login.
                     
                     
                     For important fee payment deadlines and other important information, please visit
                        our website .
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     STUDY ABROAD
                     
                     Studying abroad can be one of the most rewarding experiences for students. Surprisingly,
                        the experiences and lessons learned from a student's time abroad are very different
                        from what the student had expected prior to their departure. This is one of the reasons
                        study abroad is so challenging and rewarding, but also why students should be fully
                        prepared before embarking on a study abroad trip. We know that parents often have
                        many questions about the process. If you and your student are interested, please click here to read a FAQ for Parents about Study Abroad and its many opportunities .
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Testing Center
                     
                     Interested in helping your student save money and reduce their time to graduation?
                     
                     Students may earn credit for a course by taking a subject specific exam through CLEP
                        (College Level Examination Program) and DSST (Dantes Subject Standardized Tests).
                        More than 70 exams are offered through our Testing Center, and credit for a maximum
                        of 15 exams may be applied to a student's degree program. Testing fees are as low
                        as $100 per exam. For more information, encourage your student to visit with their
                        academic advisor then visit the Testing Center website or office at 112 Brister Hall. 
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     Health Services
                     
                     Parents of University of Memphis students whose children are still covered by their
                           health insurance are encouraged to use their vision benefits at University Eye Care
                           of Southern College of Optometry.Conveniently located on campus above the bookstore
                           in the V. Lane Rawlins Service Court, University Eye Care offers full eye exams, treatment
                           of vision health issues, as well as a complete selection of stylish frames, sunglasses
                           and contact lenses. 
                     
                     University Eye Care is currently offering 30% off its entire stock of sunglasses,
                        including prescription frames, with 40% off sunglasses if they're purchased as a second
                        pair to regular frames or contact lenses. Most insurance plans are accepted. Click here to learn more .
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                       Instructional Technology Service (ITS)
                     
                     Discounts for U of M Students on Software and Hardware To ensure your student has the right tools and technology. The University has partnered
                        with vendors to offer discounts to students on Apple and Dell devices, as well as discounts on several software packages. This information, and
                        more, can also be found on the umTech website.
                     
                     
                     The ITS Help Desk Hours and Location Additionally, the Instructional Technology Service (ITS) Help Desk can be reached
                        by phone at (901) 678-8888 on a 24 hour basis for you convenience. Walk-ins can come
                        by Monday through Friday from 8:00 am to 7:00 pm. We are located in Room 100 in the
                        Administration Building. Here's to a great summer!
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                       ATHLETICS
                     
                     
                     For athletic schedules, click here .
                     
                     
                     Football:   Kuhn Named to Rimington Trophy Watch List . University of Memphis rising sophomore center Gabe Kuhn is one of 50 student-athletes
                        on the 2015 Spring Watch List released by the Rimington Trophy Committee on May 19th.
                        Read more...
                     
                     W. Golf:   Michaela Fletcher Florida-Bound for NCAA Championship Finals . The 2015 NCAA Women's Golf Championship Final Rounds will be played at The Concession
                        Golf Club in Bradenton, Florida. Read more...
                     
                     To purchase tickets to UofM sporting events, click here .
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                       Fun Fact & Quote
                     
                     
                     Fun Fact: Did you miss it? For part of the Homecoming celebration this year, students, faculty,
                        and staff decided to "Shake it Off"! Check out the video here . Just another glimpse of the fun that happens on our campus everyday!
                     
                     
                     Quote: "You learn something every day if you pay attention." - Ray LeBlond
                     
                     
                     Top
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Resources
                        
                           
                              
                              Parent Handbook
                                    FAQs
                                    Academics at UofM
                                    Student Records
                                    Student Life
                                    Health & Safety
                                    Financial Information
                                 
                              
                              I Want To
                              In the Now
                              Vocabulary
                                    UofM Vocabulary
                                    College Vocabulary
                                 
                              
                              Publications
                              Parents of…
                                    Future Students
                                    Freshmen
                                    Transfer
                                    Commuter
                                    Out of State
                                    Seniors
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Got questions, comments, or concerns?  We're here to help!
                           
                           
                              Parent & Family E-news
                              Stay in touch electronically by subscribing to our E-News.
                           
                           
                              Parent & Family Handbook
                              Learn about opportunities and services available to students.
                           
                           
                              In the Now
                              What you need to know this month to help you help your student
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/14/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/resources/enews_may15.php
