http://www.memphis.edu/theatre/academicprograms/MFA/comps.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Theatre & Dance
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Academic Programs
                        Admissions
                        People
                        Production Archives
                        Purchase Tickets
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           Academic Programs
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Undergraduate BFA
                                       About the BFA
                                       Performance
                                       Musical Theatre
                                       Design/Technical Production
                                       Dance
                                    
                                 
                                 Graduate MFA
                                       About the MFA
                                       MFA Curriculum
                                       Assistantships
                                       Application Process
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Theatre & Dance
                              	
                        
                              	Programs
                              	
                        MFA Graduate Comprehensive Examination
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     The Comprehensive Examination will consist of two components: (a) a written examination,
                     and (b) an oral defense of the written examination. The written examination consists of questions that address three aspects of Theatre
                     training: theory, history, and practice.
                     
                     The questions are structured to function as springboards for thought. It is important
                        to be as perceptive as possible in identifying the core concerns of each question
                        so as to address them in the most comprehensive manner. The student should attempt
                        to make insightful connections with the ideas and concepts that have informed the
                        three years of study in the MFA program. Further, the examination is an opportunity
                        for the student to articulate personal artistic vision and commitment to styles of
                        theatre practice.
                     
                     
                     Normally, the Comprehensive Examination is scheduled during the student's final semester.
                        The student is responsible for taking the initiative in scheduling dates for both
                        the written component and the oral defense. The student's Graduate Advising Committee
                        will evaluate both the written and oral components of the exam.
                     
                     
                     Written Response
                     
                     Each member of the student's Graduate Advisory Committee submits proposed questions
                        to the committee Chair (other faculty members may also submit questions for consideration).
                     
                     
                     The committee Chair serves as editor, responsible for formulating an examination which
                        will address theoretical, historical, and practical issues in a context which is reasonable
                        given the student's focus of study and the parameters for the examination administration.
                     
                     
                     Occasionally, most often in the case of Design students, the Chair may include a practical
                        project to be executed on an individually determined timetable. At the scheduled time
                        for administration of the examination the Graduate Advisory Committee will present
                        the student with a written copy of the examination questions and any supplemental
                        materials (e.g. reference texts, renderings, recordings, etc.) that may be needed.
                     
                     
                     The date and time by which the written response must be submitted will be indicated
                        on the examination. The written examination response must be typed in double-spaced
                        manuscript form, paginated, and conclude with accompanying bibliography and footnotes.
                        Each source consulted should be listed in the bibliography whether footnoted or not.
                        The Harvard (Author/Date) System is recommended for footnote citations. The text of
                        each question should precede the written response to the question.
                     
                     
                     Paper copies of the written examination response are to be submitted, at the agreed
                        upon date and time, to each of the Graduate Advisory Committee members. In addition,
                        one copy should be submitted electronically on CD for inclusion in the student's file.
                        Naturally, the student will be expected to retain one copy for personal reference.
                        The Department will allow the student to make copies at no charge using the office
                        photocopier.
                     
                     
                     Oral Defense
                     
                     Oral defense of the written examination typically occurs three to six days after submission
                        of the written response. Although normally only members of the Graduate Advisory Committee
                        are in attendance, other faculty members may attend if they so desire.
                     
                     
                     If, in the opinion of the Graduate Advisory Committee, the written response to the
                        examination questions demonstrates sufficient insight and understanding of the issues
                        raised by those questions as well as a lucid and comprehensive treatment of those
                        same issues, the oral defense will provide an opportunity to engage in further enriched
                        discussion regarding those issues.
                     
                     
                     If, however, insight and understanding are not evident or there is a lack of clarity
                        or breadth of treatment, the committee will focus the oral defense in an attempt to
                        provide clarification and amplification sufficient to render the written examination
                        response acceptable to the committee.
                     
                     
                     Scheduling
                     
                     Normally, the Comprehensive Examination is scheduled during the student's final semester.
                        Each semester the Graduate School publishes on the registrar's website a date by which
                        notification of successful completion of the Comprehensive Examination must be received
                        in order for a student to be graduated in that semester. It is advisable to schedule
                        the Comprehensive Examination at least one month prior to the Graduate School deadline
                        to provide time for rewriting which may be required.
                     
                     
                     The student is responsible for taking the initiative in scheduling dates for both
                        the written component and the oral defense (typically, the oral defense is scheduled
                        three to six days after submission of the written examination). The written component
                        of the Comprehensive Examination is normally a take-home examination. In a typical
                        example, the student receives the examination questions at noon on Friday and submits
                        copies of the completed examination response by noon the following Monday. Many variations
                        of this example are appropriate.
                     
                     
                     In preparation for the Comprehensive Examination, the student should review the MFA
                        bibliographies. The books, plays, and periodicals included in these bibliographies
                        were chosen to reflect influential ideas relevant to the Theatre in general and to
                        the Department's programs of study in particular. These ideas will most likely serve
                        as an important referent for the Graduate Advisory Committee as it formulates the
                        Comprehensive Examination.
                     
                     
                     The student is advised to schedule the time for the Comprehensive Examination with
                        care. There should be no distractions such as theatre production responsibilities
                        or major course assignments due which might limit concentration on the examination.
                     
                     
                     Evaluation
                     
                     
                     If both the written examination and the oral defense reflect sufficient mastery of
                        the field of study, the Graduate Advisory Committee will certify completion of the
                        Comprehensive Examination with no reservations.
                     
                     
                     If the written examination leaves important aspects of the questions unanswered or
                        seems to reflect a misunderstanding of issues, opportunity will be available in the
                        oral defense for amplification and clarification. If the oral defense clarifies issues
                        and resolves the Committee's concerns, the committee will certify completion of the
                        Comprehensive Examination.
                     
                     
                     If satisfactory resolution is not achieved in the oral defense, the committee may
                        require the student to rewrite the response to one or more of the original questions
                        or the Chair may assign newly formulated questions that address perceived deficiencies.
                        The student will be given a date to complete the rewrite and a second oral defense
                        will be scheduled. Since it is not uncommon to be asked to rewrite one or more response,
                        the student should be careful to schedule the first attempt of the Comprehensive Examination
                        at least one month in advance of the Graduate School's deadline for notification of
                        successful completion of the Comprehensive Examination.
                     
                     
                     If the written examination and oral defense reveal a fundamental lack of understanding
                        or lack of ability to make connections among areas of knowledge in the field of study,
                        the committee will not certify completion of the Comprehensive Examination.
                     
                     
                     In this case, the student will be required to address remedial measures recommended
                        by the Committee prior to attempting a re-take of the examination. In accordance with
                        published University policy, the student may attempt successful completion of the
                        Comprehensive Examination a maximum of three times before being discontinued in the
                        program.
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Academic Programs
                        
                           
                              
                              Undergraduate BFA
                                    About the BFA
                                    Performance
                                    Musical Theatre
                                    Design/Technical Production
                                    Dance
                                 
                              
                              Graduate MFA
                                    About the MFA
                                    MFA Curriculum
                                    Assistantships
                                    Application Process
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              2016-2017 Season
                              Join us for our 2016-2017 Theatre & Dance Season
                           
                           
                              Little Shop of Horrors
                              Listen to director Jacob Allen and Kacky Walton on Checking on the Arts on WKNO.
                           
                           
                              Watch Me – Theatre Video
                              Take a closer look at the UofM Department of Theatre & Dance
                           
                           
                              Alumni in the news!
                              Jung Han Kim (MFA'15) to direct Titus Andronicus at The Rose Theatre, Bankside London.
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/theatre/academicprograms/MFA/comps.php
