http://www.memphis.edu/music/future/endowed.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Future Students
                        Current Students
                        Academics
                        Ensembles
                        Faculty
                        Alumni
                     
                     
                        
                           Future Students
                           
                              
                                 
                                 All Students
                                       
                                       Arrange a Visit
                                       
                                       Degrees Offered
                                       
                                       Ensembles
                                       
                                       Endowed Scholarships
                                       
                                       Admissions Contacts
                                    
                                 
                                 Undergraduates
                                       Request Information
                                       Degree Outlines
                                       Apply Now
                                       Application Information
                                       Admissions and Placements
                                       Audition Information
                                       Audition Requirements
                                       Scholarships
                                       Enrollment Timeline
                                       Theory Test Sample
                                       Student Handbook
                                    
                                 
                                 Graduates
                                       Request Information
                                       Apply Now
                                       Application Information
                                       Audition Information
                                       Audition Requirements
                                       Grad Studies and Assistantships
                                       Student Handbook
                                       Artist Diploma - Violin
                                       Artist Diploma - Voice
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Music
                              	
                        
                              	Future Students
                              	
                        Endowed Scholarships
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Endowed Scholarships
                     
                     Lily Afshar Guitar Scholarship
                     
                     The Lily Afshar Guitar Scholarship is available for students enrolled at the University
                        of Memphis. Students must be a full-time student (undergraduate or graduate) enrolled
                        in the guitar program within the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music. Non-Tennessee residents
                        and foreign students may be eligible for this scholarship. The recipient must maintain
                        a cumulative GPA of at least 3.0 and be a talented guitarist with excellent practice
                        habits, high quality of performance, and demonstrate extreme financial need.
                     
                     
                     Joe D'Gerolamo Memorial Scholarship
                     
                     The Joe D'Gerolamo Memorial Scholarship Fund is awarded to a student studying jazz
                        in the College of Communication and Fine Arts at the University of Memphis. Candidates
                        must demonstrate financial need as well as academic merit.
                     
                     
                     Elba Gandy Memorial Scholarship
                     
                     The Elba Gandy Memorial Music Scholarship Fund was created to provide assistance for
                        students studying music at the University of Memphis. This is an annual scholarship.
                     
                     
                     James and Christopher Gholson Scholarship
                     
                     The James and Christopher Gholson Scholarship Fund is available for undergraduate
                        and graduate students majoring in Commercial Music or Woodwinds (music education or
                        music performance). The award recipient must meet the following criteria: must have
                        evidence of financial need, must have evidence of musical talent and potential success,
                        and must visit the Tutoring Office and select a self-tutor, online or office guided
                        program that best fits their general needs and select a means of documenting reading
                        improvement that occurred from the beginning to the end of the school year in which
                        the scholarship was awarded. Award recipients may reapply for additional awards in
                        subsequent years provided they are in good academic standing, having a minimum GPA
                        of 2.5, and meet the above criteria.  Applicants must write a three page essay that
                        addresses the following:
                     
                     
                     The applicant's affinity for the needs of under-represented or under-served communitiesThe
                        importance of reading speed and comprehension and its relationship to music and academic
                        successThe applicant's commitment to enhancing their reading speed and comprehension.
                     
                     
                     Herbert Herman Memorial Scholarship
                     
                     The Herbert Hermann Scholarship Fund is available for incoming freshmen and current
                        students of the University of Memphis. Current students must possess a 3.0 grade point
                        average and incoming freshman must have received a 20 on his/her ACT score. Financial
                        need may be considered.
                     
                     
                     John G. Hughes Music Scholarship
                     
                     The John G. Hughes Scholarship is available for students enrolled at the University
                        of Memphis. Applicants must be a full or part time freshman, sophomore, junior, or
                        senior of the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music. Preference will be given to students
                        studying organ. Recipients must maintain a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0.  A need
                        for financial assistance is not required and this scholarship is renewable to the
                        recipient for a maximum of four years.
                     
                     
                     Robert Kelley Memorial Scholarship
                     
                     The Robert Kelley Memorial Scholarship award is given to an enrolled student at the
                        Music Business Division of the Scheidt School of Music at the University of Memphis.
                        The recipients must have been in the top 20% of their graduating class or have a minimum
                        cumulative GPA of 3.0 and be pursuing a degree in the music business. This scholarship
                        may be renewed for a total of four years if all criteria continue to be met or at
                        the discretion of the selection committee.
                     
                     
                     Douglas C. Lemmon Memorial Scholarship
                     
                     The Douglas C. Lemmon Scholarship is available to a full-time student enrolled at
                        the University of Memphis and a study of trombone within the Department of Music.
                        The recipient must be in academic good standing and may receive this award for a maximum
                        of four years if eligibility requirements are met.
                     
                     
                     Jerry Lee Lewis Endowed Scholarship
                     
                     The Jerry Lee Lewis Endowed Scholarship Fund is available for students enrolled at
                        the University of Memphis and pursuing a Bachelor of Music degree within the College
                        of Communication and Fine Arts and be in good academic standing.
                     
                     
                     Lubriani Clarinet Award
                     
                     Established in memory of Frederic Lubrani, professor of clarinet at the University
                        of Memphis, this award honors an outstanding clarinetist or clarinetists.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Barbara D. Mashburn Choral Scholarship
                     
                     The Dr. Barbara D. Mashburn Choral Music Education Scholarship is available to an
                        undergraduate student enrolled at the University of Memphis and the Music Education
                        Choral Degree program of the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music. In addition, the recipients
                        must demonstrate commitment to utilizing his/her talents and training as a music educator.
                     
                     
                     Ethel T. Maxwell Voice Scholarship
                     
                     The Ethel Taylor Maxwell Voice Scholarship is available for incoming freshmen and
                        current students of the University of Memphis. Incoming freshmen shall have been in
                        the upper quarter of their high school class and have demonstrated voice talent. 
                        Emphasis will be placed on voice talent.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Sidney J. McKay Award
                     
                     The Dr. Sidney J. McKay Fellowship is awarded to a full-time graduate student pursuing
                        a degree with a focus in wind conducting or music education with the intent to become
                        an instrumental music educator. Candidates must have a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.25
                        at the time of graduation. Local, out of state, and foreign students are eligible
                        for this award. Preference will be given to a student who demonstrates financial need.
                     
                     
                     Berl Olswanger Scholarship
                     
                     The Memphis Gridiron Show, Inc. honors the late Berl Olswanger by rewarding an undergraduate
                        student with a scholarship in the fall semester and selection is made in the spring. 
                        To be eligible for the award, students must be an undergraduate in the College of
                        Communication and Fine Arts with interest in music and have a minimum GPA of 2.5. 
                        Preference is given to a music major.
                     
                     
                     Sam Phillips Scholarship
                     
                     The Sam Phillips Endowed Scholarship Fund is awarded to a student studying music or
                        music engineering in the College of Communication and Fine Arts at the University
                        of Memphis. Candidates shall have demonstrated financial need as well as exceptional
                        talent.
                     
                     
                     Elvis Presley Endowed Scholarship
                     
                     The Elvis Presley Endowed Scholarship Fund is available to a student in the College
                        of Communication and Fine Arts at the University of Memphis. Applicants shall demonstrate
                        financial need and academic merit.
                     
                     
                     Presser Foundation Scholarship
                     
                     The Presser Scholarship is available for students enrolled at the University of Memphis.
                        The award will be made to an outstanding music major, at or after the end of the student's
                        junior year. Recipients of this award are known as a Presser Scholar.
                     
                     
                     Charlie Rich Scholarship
                     
                     The Charlie Rich Endowed Scholarship is available to a student studying music in the
                        College of Communication and Fine Arts at the University of Memphis. Candidates for
                        this scholarship shall have demonstrated financial need as well as academic merit.
                     
                     
                     Charles Riecker Memorial Fund
                     
                     The Charles Riecker Memorial Fund shall be given to graduate vocal students in the
                        opera program. The selection is made by the Voice and Opera faculty at the Rudi E.
                        Scheidt School of Music from both current and incoming graduate students.
                     
                     
                     Clement Santi Memorial Music Scholarship
                     
                     The Clement Santi Memorial Music Scholarship is given to deserving full-time students
                        in music and the dramatic arts at the University of Memphis.
                     
                     
                     Santi Family Legacy Scholarship
                     
                     The Santi Family Legacy Scholarship is given to an enrolled student at the University
                        of Memphis and pursuing a degree majoring in music with a concentration in performance
                        in the area of voice with preference given to a student participating in opera. Recipients
                        must have a minimum ACT score of 23, live in the Mid-South region, and be a proven
                        leader in the community. In order to retain this scholarship, recipients must maintain
                        a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0 and participate in fifteen hours of community service
                        each semester. This award can be awarded for a maximum of four consecutive years if
                        all criteria continue to be met.
                     
                     
                     Smit Music Composition Award
                     
                     This award is given in memory of Johannes Smit, professor of composition at the University
                        of Memphis. It recognizes an outstanding composition student.
                     
                     
                     SunTrust Scholarship Fund
                     
                     The SunTrust Scholars Program is given to enrolled full-time undergraduate and graduate
                        students at the University of Memphis.
                     
                     
                     Undergraduate requirements: Must be a resident of Shelby County, Tennessee or reside
                        within 30 miles of Shelby County, Tennessee, must declare Music major, must be enrolled
                        as a full-time student and must have a 25 or higher on ACT and a 3.0 GPA.
                     
                     
                     Graduate requirements: Master's candidates enrolled in the Rudi E. Scheidt School
                        of Music having graduated in high standing with an undergraduate degree, full-time
                        students must maintain at least 12 graduate credit hours, and renewal of the SunTrust
                        Graduate Music Scholarship requires maintaining a cumulative 3.5 GPA and carrying
                        a minimum of 12 credit hours for full time students.
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Future Students
                        
                           
                              
                              All Students
                                    
                                    Arrange a Visit
                                    
                                    Degrees Offered
                                    
                                    Ensembles
                                    
                                    Endowed Scholarships
                                    
                                    Admissions Contacts
                                 
                              
                              Undergraduates
                                    Request Information
                                    Degree Outlines
                                    Apply Now
                                    Application Information
                                    Admissions and Placements
                                    Audition Information
                                    Audition Requirements
                                    Scholarships
                                    Enrollment Timeline
                                    Theory Test Sample
                                    Student Handbook
                                 
                              
                              Graduates
                                    Request Information
                                    Apply Now
                                    Application Information
                                    Audition Information
                                    Audition Requirements
                                    Grad Studies and Assistantships
                                    Student Handbook
                                    Artist Diploma - Violin
                                    Artist Diploma - Voice
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Performances This Week
                              See the latest updates
                           
                           
                              Performances This Semester
                              The season at a glance
                           
                           
                              New Music Center
                              A new destination for the arts
                           
                           
                              Support Us
                              Help us continue to make music
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 8/25/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/music/future/endowed.php
