http://www.memphis.edu/music/future/aud-req.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Future Students
                        Current Students
                        Academics
                        Ensembles
                        Faculty
                        Alumni
                     
                     
                        
                           Future Students
                           
                              
                                 
                                 All Students
                                       Arrange a Visit
                                       Degrees Offered
                                       Ensembles
                                       Endowed Scholarships
                                       Admissions Contacts
                                    
                                 
                                 Undergraduates
                                       
                                       Request Information
                                       
                                       Degree Outlines
                                       
                                       Apply Now
                                       
                                       Application Information
                                       
                                       Admissions and Placements
                                       
                                       Audition Information
                                       
                                       Audition Requirements
                                       
                                       Scholarships
                                       
                                       Enrollment Timeline
                                       
                                       Theory Test Sample
                                       
                                       Student Handbook
                                    
                                 
                                 Graduates
                                       Request Information
                                       Apply Now
                                       Application Information
                                       Audition Information
                                       Audition Requirements
                                       Grad Studies and Assistantships
                                       Student Handbook
                                       Artist Diploma - Violin
                                       Artist Diploma - Voice
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Music
                              	
                        
                              	Future Students
                              	
                        Audition Requirements 
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Audition Requirements - Undergraduate
                     
                     GENERAL INFORMATION
                     
                     All undergraduate applicants to the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music are required to
                        have an audition or orientation, and to take music theory and class piano (if applicable)
                        placement exams.
                     
                     
                     Basic audition instructions: Be prepared to perform two pieces of music on your primary
                        instrument which are contrasting in style and showcase your musical and technical
                        abilities. You will be asked to play scales and to sight read.
                     
                     
                     AREA-SPECIFIC INFORMATION
                     
                     The following information has been provided by School of Music faculty to further
                        assist students with their audition preparation.
                     
                     
                     Bassoon Audition Requirements and Repertoire Cello Audition Repertoire Clarinet Audition Requirements and Repertoire Classical Guitar Commercial Music Composition Degree Program Requirements Double Bass Audition Repertoire Flute Audition Requirements Harpsichord Private Lesson Audition Requirements Jazz and Studio Music Audition Requirements Music Industry Requirements Organ Audition Requirements Percussion Audition Information Piano Audition Requirements Trombone and Euphonium Requirements Trumpet Audition Requirements Tuba Audition Requirements Voice Division Audition and Class Information Viola Audition Requirements Violin Audition Requirements
                     
                       BASSOON AUDITION REQUIREMENTS AND REPERTOIRE
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Two pieces in contrasting styles such as a slow and fast movement of a Galliard Sonata
                           (two movements from the Carl Maria von Weber Concerto in F major would be an option
                           for the exceptional student)
                        
                        
                        All major scales and the chromatic scale from the lowest note to the highest note
                        
                     
                     
                       CELLO AUDITION REPERTOIRE
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Major and minor scales
                        
                        An etude
                        
                        Two works contrasting in tempo and style
                        
                     
                     
                       CLARINET AUDITION REQUIREMENTS AND REPERTOIRE
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Two pieces are contrasting in style (fast and slow); can be in the form of etudes
                           or excerpts from concertos or sonatas (eg. Weber Concerto #1 or Concertino)
                        
                        
                        Sight-reading
                        
                        Major, minor, and chromatic scales, preferably memorized
                        
                     
                     
                     Any student may send a preliminary audio or video medium, however, these do not stand
                        in lieu of a live audition.
                     
                     
                       CLASSICAL GUITAR CLASS REGISTRATION INFORMATION
                     
                     
                     MUAP 1551 is a private lesson for guitar majors or students who have the equivalent
                        of two semesters of MUAP 1550, one hour a week with Dr. Lily Afshar. It is restricted
                        and for more advanced students who are accepted only by audition.
                     
                     
                     MUAP 1550 Guitar Introductory Instruction is a private lesson of 1/2 hour weekly for
                        students who are accepted only by audition. The lesson time is set between the student
                        and graduate assistant teacher after audition.
                     
                     
                     MUSE 1118 is a class for non-music majors, for the person who has never played classical
                        guitar and may not read music. No audition necessary.
                     
                     
                     Students may address questions to Dr. Lily Afshar at  lafshar@memphis.edu .
                     
                     
                     CLASSICAL GUITAR AUDITION INFORMATION AND REPERTOIRE
                     
                     Applicants seeking School of Music talent-based performance scholarships must have
                        had a minimum of three years of classical guitar private instruction in order to play
                        a scholarship audition.
                     
                     
                     Recording Technology and Music Business applicants not applying for School of Music
                        scholarships and who select classical guitar for their applied instrument audition
                        with Dr. Lily Afshar on the first day of classes of the fall or spring semester. Make
                        an appointment with Dr. Afshar, lafshar@memphis.edu.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Major and Minor Segovia or Shearer scales, two or three octaves
                        
                        Three contrasting pieces from three different periods, memorized
                        
                        Music Education - Choral applicants whose primary instrument is guitar do a brief
                           vocal audition as a part of their audition day.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     See VOICE DIVISION, Other-Voice.
                     
                      COMMERCIAL MUSIC PERFORMANCE EMPHASIS - ALL INSTRUMENTS AND VOICE
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Major scales in all keys, ascending and descending in eighth notes at metronome marking
                           quarter note=80
                        
                        
                        Minor scales in the key of c,g,d,b, and a
                        
                        Arpeggios on major and minor triads
                        
                        Arpeggios on major and minor seventh and dominant seventh chords Improvise on a basic
                           twelve-bar Blues progression (12 bar solos for drummers).
                        
                        
                        Perform standard commercial music compositions in at least two styles.
                        
                        Vocalists prepare three contrasting songs.
                        
                        No more than one original composition will be allowed.
                        
                        Sight-reading standard notation (no tablature). All rhythm section musicians will
                           also be expected to accompany from a chord chart or lead sheet.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                       COMPOSITION DEGREE PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS
                     
                     
                     To be accepted as a Composition major, a student must audition and accomplish the
                        following:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Audition and acceptance by applied faculty on an instrument or voice
                        
                        Complete MUTC 1008/1010
                        
                        Complete MUAP 1105
                        
                        Complete MUTC 2501
                        
                        Be recommend for acceptance into MUTC 2502 by the Composition faculty
                        
                     
                     
                     Until an applicant has achieved the above, he has not been fully accepted into the
                        Composition program. The student who has a portfolio of written, possibly published
                        and recorded pieces ready for presentation prior to audition, is encouraged to make
                        an appointment with composition faculty for portfolio review.
                     
                     
                       DOUBLE BASS AUDITION REPERTOIRE
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Major scales, two octaves
                        
                        Two contrasting movements of a standard sonata or concerto, or two contrasting etudes
                        
                     
                     
                       FLUTE AUDITION REQUIREMENTS
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Major and minor scales (Taffanel/Gaubert #4 recommended)
                        
                        Chromatic scale, three octaves
                        
                        One movement from a Handel or Bach sonata
                        
                        One movement from a 20th century sonata or concerto
                        
                        Sight-reading
                        
                     
                     
                       HARPSICHORD PRIVATE LESSON AUDITION REQUIREMENTS
                     
                     
                     In most cases, keyboard players (organists, pianists, and harpsichordists) should
                        be able to play at the minimum level of the Bach Inventions or other moderately difficult
                        keyboard literature. Sight-reading will be checked.
                     
                     
                       JAZZ AND STUDIO MUSIC AUDITION REQUIREMENTS
                     
                     
                     Auditionees must be able to READ music: notes, chords and rhythms. Auditions and acceptance
                        to the School of Music in the Jazz Division are heavily weighted on this. Auditionees
                        are not accepted based on ear playing and/or guitar/bass tablature.
                     
                     
                     Jazz and Studio Music Composition and Arranging Emphasis
                     
                     
                        
                        Submit three scores of original compositions or arrangements as follows:
                        
                        Bebop or Contemporary bop style, Latin, fusion or ballad style, Pop or commercial
                           style
                        
                        
                        A performance audition on the student's applied instrument or voice will be required.
                        
                     
                     
                     Jazz and Studio Music Performance Emphasis - All Instruments and Voice
                     
                     
                        
                        *Major scales in all keys, ascending and descending in eighth notes at metronome marking
                           quarter note=80*
                        
                        
                        Minor scales in the key of c,g,d,b, and a*
                        
                        The basic jazz modes of Dorian, Lydian and Mixolydian on C,G,F,D,B, and A*
                        
                        Arpeggios on major and minor triads*
                        
                        Arpeggios on major and minor seventh and dominant seventh chordsImprovise on a basic
                           twelve-bar Blues progression (12 bar solos for drummers).
                        
                        
                        Perform standard jazz composition in at least two styles, one must be bop or swing
                           (4 bar solos for drummers)
                        
                        
                        Vocalists prepare songs that illustrate three styles. See below.
                        
                        Sight-reading in several styles from jazz band or jazz choir literature to be provided
                           by auditioning faculty
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     *not required of percussionists unless auditioning on mallet keyboard
                     
                     Jazz and Studio Music Performance -- Saxophone
                     
                     It is desirable that saxophonists double on flute, clarinet or both.
                     
                     Jazz and Studio Music Performance -- Vocalists
                     
                     
                        
                        At least one selection in the style of the great vocal jazz masters, eg., Billie Holiday,
                           Sarah Vaughn, Ella Fitzgerald, Anita O'Day, Carmen McRae, Nat "King" Cole, Billy Eckstine,
                           Jon Hendricks, Frank Sinatra, Mel Torme, or Joe Williams
                        
                        
                        At least one selection in the style of the contemporary vocal jazz artists, eg., Chaka
                           Kahn, Tanya Maria, Flora Purim, Dianne Reeves, Elis Regina, Dianne Schuur, Harry Connick
                           Jr., Michael Franks, Al Jarreau, or Bobby McFerrin
                        
                        
                        At least one selection in the style of any internationally recognized pop or R & B
                           artist, eg., Regina Belle, Brandy, Mariah Carey, Sheryl Crow, Sheena Easton, Roberta
                           Flack, Aretha Franklin, Patti LaBelle, Alanis Morissette, Joan Osborne, Al Green,
                           Donnie Hathaway, Michael Jackson, Billy Ocean, Ray Parker Jr., Seal, James Taylor,
                           or Stevie Wonder
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Jazz and Studio Music Performance - Rhythm Section: Piano, Drumset, Guitar, Acoustic
                           Bass, Electric Bass
                     
                     
                        
                        All rhythm players will be expected to accompany from a chord chart or lead sheet
                           in the styles of Bop, Latin, Fusion, or jazz/rock, rock and pop.
                        
                        
                        Drummers will be expected to demonstrate adequate knowledge of percussion rudiments,
                           and in addition, examples of the following drum set patterns at various tempi:
                        
                        
                        Bebop and contemporary mainstream (using both sticks and brushes)
                        
                        Jazz waltz, Bossa nova and samba, Salsa or Afro-CubanFusion, funk, or jazz/rockBallads
                           (brushes and sticks), R & B and shuffle, Rock and pop.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Jazz Guitar Registration Information
                     
                     Intro to Jazz Guitar, MUAP 1550-01 is a class for music majors and music minors that
                        meets one hour per week. Students should be enrolled concurrently in theory classes.
                        Students who do not read notes, chords and rhythms can expect to take this class after
                        MUTC 1008/1010. Audition placement required.
                     
                     
                     Undergraduate Jazz Guitar, MUAP 1552-003 – lower division, MUAP 4552-003 – upper division,
                        is a private, one hour weekly lesson for jazz guitar majors and advanced Music Industry
                        majors. Students must be enrolled in a jazz ensemble and the Jazz Guitar Ensemble
                        (MUAP 3504-011). Audition required.
                     
                     
                      MUSIC INDUSTRY AUDITION REQUIREMENTS
                     
                     
                     Essay Information
                     
                     Write an essay on the appropriate topic given on the following page. Seek and study
                        a variety of sources to reach your own conclusions in order to express your own topical
                        thoughts. Cite references to avoid plagiarism. Essays must be electronically submitted
                        as attached Word documents no later than two (2) weeks prior to Audition/Orientation
                        Day. Essays must be single spaced and created with 12-point Times font with 1" margins
                        on all sides. Essays must be a minimum of 750 words and no longer than 1,000 words.
                        All reference sources must be cited and are not included in the word count of the
                        written essay. Put your name, date, and essay title at the top of your essay.
                     
                     
                     Essay Topic for Music Business Applicants
                     
                     "For the past decade, sales of recorded music released by the three major companies
                        in the field (Sony Music Entertainment, Universal Music Group, and Warner Music Group)
                        have been undergoing significant declines. Some say this slowdown in growth can be
                        attributed to either the phenomenon of widespread file sharing on the Internet, to
                        a lack of quality music, to the rise of streaming delivery services, or a combination
                        of these and other factors. In the current environment, some are predicting that independent
                        musicians and independent labels will have a better opportunity to thrive because
                        they are smaller and more flexible than the majors and can take advantage of the Internet
                        and other new technologies to promote their music. Yet these same musicians and labels
                        are facing some of the same issues and pressures that the major labels are. In your
                        essay, discuss your views on the future of the music industry, making your argument
                        for who you think will benefit from the recent changes in the business (e.g., major
                        or independents) and how they will still be able to generate revenues given the widespread
                        availability of free music." ​
                     
                     
                     Essay Topic for Recording Technology Applicants
                     
                     "Digital delivery systems of audio (i.e. the Internet) have forced the entire music
                        industry to rethink the methods involved in the recording and distribution of recorded
                        material. At recent audio conventions there has been much discussion regarding digital
                        audio watermarking. Relying on your own research, provide information regarding the
                        fairly young history of digital audio watermark technology as well as how you anticipate
                        the technology will continue to develop and be utilized in the future."
                     
                     
                       ORGAN INSTRUCTION AUDITION REQUIREMENTS
                     
                     
                     Beginning Student
                     
                     Students auditioning for lower division undergraduate-level organ may audition on
                        organ or on piano. If auditioning on organ, they should play 15-20 minutes of music,
                        including a composition by Johann Sebastian Bach and a composition by a later composer.
                        If auditioning on piano, they should play 15-20 minutes of music on a level of a Bach
                        3-part Sinfonia (Invention), an easier Mozart Sonata, Chopin, Nocturne, or Persichetti
                        Poem for Piano. All auditions include sight-reading.
                     
                     
                     Transfer Student
                     
                     Students auditioning for upper division undergraduate level organ should play 20-30
                        minutes of music, including a composition by Johann Sebastian Bach and a composition
                        by a later composer. Audition material should demonstrate the student's technical
                        and musical proficiency. Students should bring to the audition a list of music that
                        they have played.
                     
                     
                       PERCUSSION AUDITION REQUIREMENTS
                     
                     
                     Undergraduate percussion applicants should demonstrate proficiency in as many of the
                        following areas as possible.
                     
                     
                     Snare Drum
                     
                     
                        
                        Demonstrate rudiments: long roll-closed; pianissimo crescendo to fortissimo; decrescendo
                           to pianissimo Flam, flam tap, and accent
                        
                        
                        Demonstrate reading knowledge from Goldenberg's Modern School for Snare Drum, Cirone's
                           Portraits in Rhythm or similar snare drum method
                        
                        
                        Sight-reading
                        
                     
                     
                     Keyboard
                     
                     
                        
                        Major and minor scales, two octaves
                        
                        Any selection from Bach's Two Part Inventions top part only, or Bach's a-minor Violin
                           Concerto, third movement, or any of the 39 etudes found in the Goldenberg Modern School
                           for Xylophone, Marimba, and Vibraphone
                        
                        
                        Sight-reading
                        
                     
                     
                     Timpani
                     
                     
                        
                        Tuning of all intervals
                        
                        Technical proficiency on 3 timpani at the level of Mitchell Peter's Scherzo for Three
                           Timpani, Garwood Whalley's Statement for Timpani, or three timpani exercises from
                           the Goodman or Friese-Lepak timpani methods
                        
                        
                        Sight-reading
                        
                     
                     
                       PIANO AUDITION REQUIREMENTS
                     
                     
                     Piano Performance
                     
                     
                        
                        Major and minor scales
                        
                        Two works contrasting in tempo and style, eg. Bach Prelude & Fugue or Invention, movement
                           of a classical sonata, a 19th century character piece, impressionistic work, Shostakovich
                           prelude or a comparable 20th century work; the more exceptional student will play
                           the larger works of the standard composers
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Music Education
                     
                     
                        
                        Major scales
                        
                        Two works contrasting in tempo and style, eg. Bach Invention, Mendelsohnn Song without
                           Words, Satie Gymnopedie, movement of a classical sonata
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Music Education-Choral applicants whose primary instrument is piano do a brief vocal
                        audition as a part of their audition day. See VOICE DIVISION, Other-Voice.
                     
                     
                     Music Minor
                     
                     
                        
                        Major scales
                        
                        Two works contrasting in tempo and style
                        
                     
                     
                       TRUMPET AUDITION REQUIREMENTS
                     
                     
                     Two or three Etudes/Solos of contrasting character should be prepared which best demonstrate
                        your sound, range, and technique. The following repertoire is recommended but similar
                        works may be substituted.
                     
                     
                     Performance
                     
                     
                        
                        Technique: All major scales and arpeggios
                        
                        Etudes: Charlier, Etudes Transcendantes; Longinotti, Studies in Classical and Modern
                           Style; Concone, Lyrical Studies; Brandt, 34 Studies
                        
                        
                        Solos: Hindemith, Sonate; Kennan, Sonata; Haydn, Concerto; Chance, Credo
                        
                     
                     
                     Music Education and all other concentrations
                     
                     
                        
                        Technique: All major scales and arpeggios
                        
                        Etudes: Bousquet, 36 Celebrated Studies; Getchell, Second Book of Practical Studies;
                           Brandt, 34 Studies; Arban, Characteristic Studies
                        
                        
                        Solos: Haydn, Concerto (2nd movement); Goeyens, All' Antica; Balay, Prelude et Ballade;
                           Barat, Fantasie en mi bemol; Goedicke, Concert Etude
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     For questions or assistance please email: Dr. David Spencer at  dspencer@memphis.edu .
                     
                     
                       TROMBONE AND EUPHONIUM AUDITION REQUIREMENTS
                     
                     
                     Required
                     
                     
                        
                        All major scales and arpeggios
                        
                        Chromatic scale, two octavesTwo prepared contrasting solos
                        
                        Two movements of a multi-movement solo, or two contrasting etudes
                        
                     
                     
                     Optional
                     
                     
                        
                        Minor scales - natural, harmonic and/or melodic
                        
                        Orchestral excerpts (trombone)
                        
                        Band excerpts (euphonium)
                        
                     
                     
                     Representative Prepared Material
                     
                     
                        
                        Etudes: Melodius Etudes – Bordogni/Rochut; Forty Progressive Studies – Tyrell; Studies
                           in Legato – Fink
                        
                        
                        Solos: Solos for the Trombone Player – ed. H. C. Smith (for euphonium, too); Morceau
                           Symphonique – Guillmant; Andante and Allegro – Barat; Andante and Allegro – Roparts;
                           Sonata #1 – Galliard
                        
                        
                     
                     
                       TUBA AUDITION REQUIREMENTS
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        All major scales
                        
                        Two contrasting solos (two movements of a multi-movement solo or two contrasting etudes)
                        
                        Sight-reading
                        
                     
                     
                       VOICE DIVISION
                     
                     
                     Voice Division Audition Information for Private Instruction
                     
                     All students will be heard by a committee of the voice faculty and other faculty as
                        designated. Under special circumstances the head of the Voice division may hear and
                        audition incoming students without an audition committee with approval of voice faculty
                        members.
                     
                     
                     Vocal Performance, Music Education-Choral, Composition, Music History
                     
                     
                        
                        Two solos, one English or one American art song plus one foreign language art song
                           or aria, memorized
                        
                        
                        Sight-reading
                        
                        Pitch recognition
                        
                        Rhythm recognition
                        
                     
                     
                     Each auditionee should bring sheet music as a pianist will be provided. Auditionees
                        may bring their own pianists.
                     
                     
                     Undergraduate/Music Education-Piano or Guitar/Music Industry/Music Minor/Lessons Only
                     
                     Audition Requirements for students interested in taking Applied Voice Lessons
                     
                     
                        
                        Two solo selections, no language requirement; selections should be in a classical
                           style and memorized
                        
                        
                        Sight-reading
                        
                        Pitch recognition
                        
                        Rhythm recognition
                        
                     
                     
                     Each auditionee should bring sheet music as a pianist will be provided. Auditionees
                        may bring their own pianists. No recorded accompaniments are allowed.
                     
                     
                     *Vocalists who are applying for Lessons Only and School of Music scholarship, complete
                        an application on Aceptd to schedule an audition.  Vocalists who are applying for
                        Lessons Only but not applying for School of Music scholarship should contact Professor
                        Susan Owen-Leinert at sownlnrt@memphis.edu, 901-678-4082, regarding scheduling an
                        audition.
                     
                     
                     Course Information
                     
                     MUAP 1610 Private instruction in basic vocal production. Audition required. Permit
                        required.
                     
                     
                     MUAP 1611 Private instruction for voice majors and concentrations. In some cases a
                        non-voice major will be allowed to study at this level when studio space permits.
                        Audition required.
                     
                     
                     All students studying voice at the MUAP 1610 or 1611 levels must have passed MUTC
                        1001 or be concurrently enrolled in it during their first semester of study. If MUTC
                        1001 is not passed, the student will not be allowed to continue voice study until
                        the requirement is met. All students enrolled in voice MUAP 1610 - MUAP 4611regardless
                        of major, must be concurrently enrolled in an ensemble each semester of study.
                     
                     
                     MUSE 1112 Vocal methods class for Music Education students other than those with voice
                        or piano concentrations. No audition is required.
                     
                     
                     MUAP 4611 Upper division vocal instruction.
                     
                       VIOLA AUDITION REPERTOIRE
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        An etude
                        
                        Two works contrasting in tempo and style
                        
                     
                     
                       VIOLIN AUDITION REPERTOIRE
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        All major and minor three-octave scales and arpeggios
                        
                        Two works contrasting in style and tempo
                        
                        Applicants for the performance degree should prepare an outer movement of a standard
                           concerto and a movement from one of Bach's Sonatas or Partitas
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Future Students
                        
                           
                              
                              All Students
                                    Arrange a Visit
                                    Degrees Offered
                                    Ensembles
                                    Endowed Scholarships
                                    Admissions Contacts
                                 
                              
                              Undergraduates
                                    
                                    Request Information
                                    
                                    Degree Outlines
                                    
                                    Apply Now
                                    
                                    Application Information
                                    
                                    Admissions and Placements
                                    
                                    Audition Information
                                    
                                    Audition Requirements
                                    
                                    Scholarships
                                    
                                    Enrollment Timeline
                                    
                                    Theory Test Sample
                                    
                                    Student Handbook
                                 
                              
                              Graduates
                                    Request Information
                                    Apply Now
                                    Application Information
                                    Audition Information
                                    Audition Requirements
                                    Grad Studies and Assistantships
                                    Student Handbook
                                    Artist Diploma - Violin
                                    Artist Diploma - Voice
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Performances This Week
                              See the latest updates
                           
                           
                              Performances This Semester
                              The season at a glance
                           
                           
                              New Music Center
                              A new destination for the arts
                           
                           
                              Support Us
                              Help us continue to make music
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/6/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/music/future/aud-req.php
