http://www.memphis.edu/music/future/ad-voice.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Future Students
                        Current Students
                        Academics
                        Ensembles
                        Faculty
                        Alumni
                     
                     
                        
                           Future Students
                           
                              
                                 
                                 All Students
                                       Arrange a Visit
                                       Degrees Offered
                                       Ensembles
                                       Endowed Scholarships
                                       Admissions Contacts
                                    
                                 
                                 Undergraduates
                                       Request Information
                                       Degree Outlines
                                       Apply Now
                                       Application Information
                                       Admissions and Placements
                                       Audition Information
                                       Audition Requirements
                                       Scholarships
                                       Enrollment Timeline
                                       Theory Test Sample
                                       Student Handbook
                                    
                                 
                                 Graduates
                                       
                                       Request Information
                                       
                                       Apply Now
                                       
                                       Application Information
                                       
                                       Audition Information
                                       
                                       Audition Requirements
                                       
                                       Grad Studies and Assistantships
                                       
                                       Student Handbook
                                       
                                       Artist Diploma - Violin
                                       
                                       Artist Diploma - Voice
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Music
                              	
                        
                              	Future Students
                              	
                        Artist Diploma - Voice 
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Opera Memphis Artists-in-Residence and the University of Memphis Artist Diploma
                     
                     Opera Memphis offers a two-year Artists-in-Residence program in partnership with the
                        University of Memphis. This program is designed for those who may have already embarked
                        on performing careers, or are on the brink of such careers. It offers opportunities
                        to work with both a professional opera company and a strong, performance-oriented
                        training program.
                     
                     
                     There are three concentrations within the Artist Diploma degree program:
                     
                     VOICE OPERA COACHING OPERA STAGE DIRECTION
                     
                     
                     APPLICATIONS FOR ARTIST DIPLOMA – VOICE This program will not be offered after Fall 2016
                     
                     Application and Audition:
                     
                     Auditions will be held for the following voice types: soprano, mezzo, tenor, baritone/bass.
                     
                     Prescreening audition application requirements are: videos of four arias and two art
                        songs of contrasting styles and languages uploaded to your application on Acceptd in addition to headshot, resume, repertoire lists, references, titles and composers
                        of your pieces, and undergraduate degree information. Audio recordings may be used
                        for the art song selections.
                     
                     
                     Live audition requirements are: four arias and two art songs of contrasting styles
                        and languages plus an age-appropriate monologue.
                     
                     
                     Program Information:
                     
                     Each year Opera Memphis presents two mainstage productions and a chamber opera festival.
                        Artists-in-Residence work with General Director, Ned Canty, and Music Director, Ben
                        Makino, with nationally recognized singers, conductors and directors. Recent conductors
                        have included Ari Pelto, Steven Osgood, and David Hayes.
                     
                     
                     Performance opportunities for Artists-in-Residence at Opera Memphis include:
                     
                     -At least one main stage role in a production, supporting or comprimario
                     
                     -Covering principal roles
                     
                     -Education and outreach concerts
                     
                     -Touring programs
                     
                     -Singing in the chorus as needed
                     
                     Performance opportunities with the University of Memphis Opera include at least one
                        principal role.  There are two fully-staged opera productions with orchestra each
                        academic year.
                     
                     
                     Artists-in-Residence pursuing the Artist Diploma work with Mark Ensley, Director of
                        Opera Studies and Ben Smith, Opera Stage Director at the University of Memphis.  Read
                        about  opera at the University of Memphis .
                     
                     
                     Students enrolled in this program work toward an Artist Diploma in Voice from the
                        University of Memphis where they receive a full tuition waiver and a $6,000 stipend.
                     
                     
                     The Artist Diploma curriculum offers considerable flexibility to the individual student.
                        In addition to studio voice lessons, students receive vocal coaching, including coaching
                        specific to preparation for his or her role in a production, as well as the opportunity
                        to take electives. Artist Diploma students may enroll in any graduate or undergraduate
                        class to best meet their individual needs. For more information about the curriculum,
                        please consult the School of Music Graduate Handbook .
                     
                     
                     Once accepted into the Artist Diploma program, applications to the University of Memphis
                        Graduate School must be made by March 1, 2016. GRE or MAT exams are not required for
                        the Artist Diploma. On the university application select "Artist Diploma in Music
                        CERT" as your planned course of study.
                     
                     
                     APPLICATIONS FOR ARTIST DIPLOMA - OPERA COACHING
                     
                     Application:
                     
                     Applicants for the artist diploma in opera coaching will complete applications to
                        both the graduate school and the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music.  The application
                        to the School of Music will contain submission of a current resume and list of opera
                        repertoire prepared (arias, scenes, acts, and full operas).
                     
                     
                     Auditions:
                     
                     An audition for the artist diploma program in opera coaching will consist of the following
                        materials presented before the Director of Opera Activities at the Rudi E. Scheidt
                        School of Music and the Music Director of Opera Memphis.
                     
                     
                     -Prepare and present an act from an opera from the standard repertoire (choice determined
                        by applicant with approval of the adjudicators)
                     
                     
                     -Accompany yourself singing an aria or song of your choosing in a language other than
                        of the opera selected
                     
                     
                     -Sight-reading (3 or 4 excerpts)
                     
                     -Read short passages of Italian, French, and German for diction purposes only
                     
                     -Interview
                     
                     APPLICATIONS FOR ARTIST DIPLOMA – OPERA STAGE DIRECTION
                     
                     Application:
                     
                     Applicants for the artist diploma in stage direction will complete applications to
                        both the graduate school and the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music.  In addition, applicants
                        will prepare and send a portfolio of work in stage direction.  The portfolio should
                        contain a resume, production skills, written commentary about role in each production,
                        video of direction of two scenes in contrasting styles, and any other supporting materials
                        deemed appropriate by the applicant (essay on production style, reflections on previous
                        productions, correspondence with designers, etc.).
                     
                     
                     Auditions:
                     
                     The audition will consist of an interview with the general director of Opera Memphis
                        and the stage director at the School of Music during which the applicant will answer
                        questions about the portfolio and general questions about operatic stage direction.
                     
                     
                     HOW TO APPLY
                     
                     To make your online application we recommend that you use Google Chrome or Safari
                        or Firefox browsers. To participate in the screening, submit a Graduate Application
                        online. You must log-in to  Acceptd with your name and create a password. Acceptd charges $15 per application submission,
                        payable with a credit or debit card.  The online fee is not refundable. Applying online
                        allows faculty to review your application in the most timely fashion, and is the easiest
                        and fastest way to apply to the School of Music.  You will be able to Save and Exit
                        your application, go back in and out until it is complete. Once your application is
                        submitted, you will be able to revisit but not change the content of your application
                        except for resending your recommendation requests.   For non-technical assistance,
                        contact  music admissions .
                     
                     
                     For more information about acceptance as a graduate student at the University of Memphis,
                        see the  Graduate School  or  Graduate School Admissions  websites.
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Future Students
                        
                           
                              
                              All Students
                                    Arrange a Visit
                                    Degrees Offered
                                    Ensembles
                                    Endowed Scholarships
                                    Admissions Contacts
                                 
                              
                              Undergraduates
                                    Request Information
                                    Degree Outlines
                                    Apply Now
                                    Application Information
                                    Admissions and Placements
                                    Audition Information
                                    Audition Requirements
                                    Scholarships
                                    Enrollment Timeline
                                    Theory Test Sample
                                    Student Handbook
                                 
                              
                              Graduates
                                    
                                    Request Information
                                    
                                    Apply Now
                                    
                                    Application Information
                                    
                                    Audition Information
                                    
                                    Audition Requirements
                                    
                                    Grad Studies and Assistantships
                                    
                                    Student Handbook
                                    
                                    Artist Diploma - Violin
                                    
                                    Artist Diploma - Voice
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Performances This Week
                              See the latest updates
                           
                           
                              Performances This Semester
                              The season at a glance
                           
                           
                              New Music Center
                              A new destination for the arts
                           
                           
                              Support Us
                              Help us continue to make music
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/21/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/music/future/ad-voice.php
