http://www.memphis.edu/amum/exhibitions/pastexhibitions.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Art Museum of the University of Memphis
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Exhibitions
                        Collections
                        Education & Research
                        Museum Studies
                     
                     
                        
                           Exhibitions
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Past Exhibitions
                                 Upcoming Exhibitions
                                 ArtLab
                                 CASEWORKS
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Art Museum of the University of Memphis
                              	
                        
                              	Exhibitions
                              	
                        Past Exhibitions
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     View Past Exhibition Galleries here
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 Flags are symbols of unity and belonging. They display one's allegiance to the world
                                    at a glance. The colors and motifs chosen for a flag also inform others about one's
                                    beliefs and values. more here
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  
                                 
                                 do it is an exhibition conceived and curated by Hans Ulrich Obrist, and organized
                                    by Independent Curators International (ICI), New York. do it and the accompanying
                                    publication, do it: the compendium, were made possible, in part, by grants from the
                                    Elizabeth Firestone Graham Foundation, the Robert Sterling Clark Foundation, and with
                                    the generous support from Project Perpetual and ICI's International Forum and Board
                                    of Trustees.  more here
                                 
                                  
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Samuel Hester Crone
                                 
                                 August 1 thru September 19, 2015
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                   installation views
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 What I Kept
                                 
                                 Penny Dodds Karwacz, curator
                                 
                                 Jason N. Miller, photographer
                                 
                                 February 26 – May 8, 2015, UofM Lambuth Campus, Varnell-Jones Hall (Opening reception
                                    Thursday, February 26, Wisdom Parlor, 5 to 7 PM)
                                 
                                 
                                 March 14 – July 2, 2015 at AMUM/Opening reception Friday, March 20, 5-7:30 
                                 
                                 What I Kept will display objects brought to Memphis and Jackson by international women
                                    from their countries of origin with personal stories about why they kept it. Celebrating
                                    the cultural diversity of our region and empowering the voice of women during women's
                                    history month, the exhibition will address ideas of material culture and tangible
                                    memory.
                                 
                                 
                                 installation views
                                 
                                 Beth Van Hoesen
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 One of the most important artists/print-makers of her generation, this selection of
                                    Beth Van Hoesen's work (1926-2010) from AMUM's collection is distinctive for the quiet
                                    poignancy and compelling charm in studies and finished work of everyday objects, animals
                                    and people.
                                 
                                 
                                 installation views
                                 
                                 ArtLab: Pink Room/De Color de Rosa by Juan Rojo
                                 
                                 "Pink Room /De Color de Rosa" is a multimedia installation of projected videos, wall
                                    painting, and printmaking. The main element of the exhibition is a multichannel projection
                                    of videos that depict women performing a Cinderella inspired routine.
                                 
                                 
                                 installation views
                                 
                                 CASEWORKS: Artifacts from AMUM's Permanent Collection
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 Pottery Water Jar or "Ula" (ca. 1920 - 1940), Acoma Pueblo, New Mexico, Coiled ceramic,
                                    slip-painted design, Mr. and Mrs. Berry B. Brooks Collection, 1984.1.200
                                 
                                 
                                 Manufacturing pottery is a tradition that has been passed down through generations
                                    of the Acoma people. The pots are known for their very thin walls, beautiful geometric
                                    designs and black-white-red slip paintings. This jar features a traditional design
                                    and shape though its small size indicates that it may have been made for sale to tourists.
                                 
                                 
                                 installation views
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Juvenile-in-Justice: Photographs by Richard Ross
                                 
                                 September 20th - November 26th
                                 
                                 Photograph by Richard Ross, Juvenile In Justice This exhibition courtesy of Richard Ross, www.juvenile-in-justice.com
                                 
                                 On any given day, about 70,000 young people are in juvenile detention or correctional
                                    facilities. This multidisciplinary exhibition and project by photographer Richard
                                    Ross documents the placement and treatment of American juveniles housed by law in
                                    facilities that treat, confine, punish, assist, and occasionally, harm them. Ross
                                    has photographed and interviewed more than 1,000 juveniles at more than 200 facilities
                                    in 31 states. The work exists at the juncture of art, social practice and politics.
                                 
                                 
                                 Installation Views
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Perceptions of Me: A Project by Penny Dodds Karwacz
                                 
                                 September 20th - November 26th
                                 
                                 Perceptions of Me is an exhibition that gives voice to teenagers who are talked and
                                    written about, but rarely listened to, raising our awareness of how Memphis teens
                                    perceive themselves. This is a collaborative project organized by Penny Dodds working
                                    with several innovative Memphis organizations that provide positive social and creative
                                    environments for youth in our community: BRIDGES, storybooth at Crosstown Arts and
                                    Caritas Village.
                                 
                                 
                                 Installation Views
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Andy Warhol Portraits: Art and Irony
                                 
                                 July 12th - September 13th
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 In conjunction with Memphis Brooks Museum of Art's exhibition, Marisol: Sculptures
                                    and Works on Paper, AMUM presents selections from its collection of Andy Warhol portrait
                                    Polaroids, black and white photos and silkscreen prints. Marisol and Warhol were colleagues
                                    and Pop portraitists, he in painting, she in sculpture.
                                 
                                 
                                 Installation Views
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Culture and Resistance:  a project by Leila Hamdan
                                 
                                 Civil Rights Photography: Memphis 1968
                                 
                                 July 12th - September 13th
                                 
                                 James R. Reid, Blue-Eye Soul Brother (February 26, 1968). Special Collections, University
                                    of Memphis
                                 
                                 
                                 The Civil Rights Movement generated an abundance of photographs documenting the African
                                    American fight for equality and economic, political and social justice. The images
                                    captured by local and national news outlets recorded this struggle and some have become
                                    iconic images representing a collective memory of the era. Curated by Leila I. Hamdan
                                    from the UM Libraries Special Collections, these photographs illustrate a new view
                                    of the struggle in Memphis.
                                 
                                 
                                 Installation Views
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Disappearing Ink
                                 
                                 a project by John Salvest
                                 
                                 April 5th - June 28th, 2014
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 An exhibition of printed ephemera recording our stories, history and cultural memory.
                                       Print media is disappearing and being replaced by ever mutating digital media. For
                                       more than 200 years news media have documented our histories. How will we capture
                                       our memories in 2050?
                                 
                                 This project made possible by the Student Activity Fee Fund.
                                 
                                 Installation Views
                                  
                              
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Bauhaus twenty-21: An Ongoing Legacy – Photographs by Gordon Watkinson
                                 
                                 September 21st, 2013 - January 4th, 2014
                                 
                                 Conceived as a multidisciplinary project encompassing architecture, design, and photography,
                                    Bauhaus twenty-21 not only conveys the architectural history, but also illustrates
                                    the enduring philosophies of the Bauhaus. The exhibition, by creating a visual as
                                    well as theoretical dialogue between the timeless modernism of Bauhaus architecture
                                    and the visions of contemporary practitioners, offers a unique perspective on Bauhaus
                                    design philosophy as it relates to architecture and its relevance in today's society.
                                 
                                 
                                 Image caption: Bauhaus Building, Walter Gropius, 1925-26, Dessau, Germany © Gordon Watkinson
                                 
                                 
                                 Installation Views
                                  
                              
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 In His Studio: Carroll Cloar
                                 
                                 June 8 – September 7, 2013
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 After traveling the world seeking inspiration, Carroll Cloar realized that he wanted
                                    to return and draw inspiration from the place he loved—the South. It was home.
                                 
                                 
                                 AMUM's exhibition "In His Studio: Carroll Cloar" features some of the artist's earliest
                                    work, his reconstructed studio, drawings, sketches and photographs. Cloar's writings
                                    inform the exhibition labels and provide a glimpse into his working methods and recollections.
                                 
                                 
                                 Installation Views
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Time Pools: Accessing the Aquifer The League of Imaginary Scientists in collaboration
                                          with The University of Memphis
                                 
                                 April 6th - May 24th, 2013 
                                 
                                 Time Pools: Accessing the Aquifer is a cross-disciplinary collaboration between Jason
                                    Miller's Digital Art class and The League of Imaginary Scientists, a group of science-minded
                                    artists. Additional project contributors include Michelle Dry and Dr. Scott Schoefernacker
                                    from the University of Memphis Ground Water Institute and software developer Silvester
                                    Kozajda. The purpose of the project, like many of the League's endeavors, is to explore
                                    scientific material through art and infuse both with a sense of play.
                                 
                                 
                                 120,000 years ago, during an age of Saber-Tooth Tigers and Wooly Mammoths, rain poured
                                    down on Memphis and soaked into the soil.
                                 
                                 
                                 Installation Views
                                  
                              
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Hot Cold Cool
                                 
                                 September 22th - January 5th
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 Hot Cold Cool presents late 20th century art from four fine art print portfolios in
                                    AMUM's collection. "Ten Works by Ten Artists" published in 1964 includes silkscreens
                                    by iconic American Minimalist and Pop artists. By contrast, the portfolio "American
                                    Artists and Writers Protest the War in Vietnam" of 1967 expresses furious political
                                    antagonism. "Ten Lithographs by Ten Artists" produced in 1971 represents a return
                                    to figurative and expressive imagery in America. The 1973 World Print portfolio demonstrates
                                    the liveliness of the artistic interchange among nations during the Cold War era.
                                 
                                 
                                 Installation Views
                                  
                              
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 By the Fire of Satire: Russian Propaganda Prints
                                 
                                 September 22th - November 21st
                                 
                                 The genre of satirical posters, an important tool of the Soviet government, ridiculed
                                    corruption, waste, inefficiency, and abuse attempting to shame individuals into improvement.
                                    Agriculture, considered the most wasteful branch of the Soviet economy and the Achilles
                                    heel of the former Soviet Union, was the topic for many of the posters in this portfolio.
                                 
                                 
                                 Installation Views
                                  
                              
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Alma Mater: University of Memphis
                                 
                                 June 16th - September 15th
                                 
                                 "What do you think the University could be?" That was the question artists Sheryl
                                    Oring and Dhanraj Emanuel asked students of The University of Memphis for the 100
                                    year centennial celebration. Funded by The Student Activity Fee Fund.
                                 
                                 
                                 Installation Views
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Memories: Richard Knowles and Steve Langdon
                                 
                                 October 8th, 2011 - January 7th, 2012
                                 
                                 Memories celebrated the life and work of both professors and artists. It showed more
                                    than 20 of Knowles' large-scale abstract paintings, including work from the Swimmers,
                                    Southwest, and Forest series, and about 30 of Langdon's small, carefully rendered
                                    ink and pencil drawings from five series, including Ritual Surgery, Cats in Trouble,
                                    Fireworks, Baseball Gloves, and Angels.
                                 
                                 
                                 Commemorative Page
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Memphis Heavyweight: Collaboration with Nick Cave
                                 
                                 July 18th - September 28th, 2011
                                 
                                 Memphis Heavyweight was a project organized by AMUM that brought Chicago artist Nick
                                    Cave to Memphis. Cave worked in collaboration with University students and faculty,
                                    and the Memphis community at large, to create a parade that occurred on April 21,
                                    2011. The exhibition featured video footage and photographs along with costumes, floats,
                                    and other artifacts from the parade.
                                 
                                 
                                 Event Coverage Here
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Paul Revere Williams, American Architect
                                 
                                 October 2010 - January 2011
                                 
                                 Paul Revere Williams, American Architect was the first museum exhibition of the prolific
                                    and acclaimed 20th century designer's work.The exhibition featured 200 new photographs
                                    presented as photographic essays, that profiled the development of his career by decade.
                                    Additionally, slide shows of found photographs and text were used to shed light on
                                    various aspects of both his personal and professional life.
                                 
                                 
                                 Official Site
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Art Is My Natural World: Alison Weld, 1980 - 2009
                                 
                                 March 6th - April 17th, 2010
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                  
                                 
                                 A survey of the past two decades of work by New York abstract painter Alison Weld.
                                    Weld typically pairs her aggressive approach to abstraction with swatches of commercially
                                    printed patterns to comment on a host of issues and personal concerns.
                                 
                                 
                                 Exhibition Catalog  / Installation Views  
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Greely Myatt and Exactly Twenty Years
                                 
                                 September - November 2009
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 A mid-career retrospective consisting of approximately twenty years of work by Memphis
                                    sculptor and University of Memphis professor, Greely Myatt. Myatt's work combines
                                    art historical reference with the vernacular influence of the South to create various
                                    narrative possibilities.
                                 
                                 
                                 Installation Views
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
               
               
                  
                     
                        Exhibitions
                        
                           
                              
                              Past Exhibitions
                              Upcoming Exhibitions
                              ArtLab
                              CASEWORKS
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Visit AMUM
                              
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              
                           
                           
                              Museum Studies Graduate Certificate Program
                              
                           
                           
                              Join Mailing List
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/14/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/amum/exhibitions/pastexhibitions.php
