http://www.memphis.edu/fogelmangalleries/exhibitions/past.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Exhibitions
                        Events
                        Press
                        Opportunities
                     
                     
                        
                           Exhibitions
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Current
                                 Upcoming
                                 Past
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art
                              	
                        
                              	Exhibitions
                              	
                        Past
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Past Exhibits
                     
                     Art of the South 2016 Juried Exhibition presented by Number: Inc
                     
                     May 16 – June 17, 2016 Opening reception: May 20
                     
                     
                     A juried exhibition, open to all artists 18 and older working in any media residing
                        in AL, AR, FL, GA, KY, LA, MA, MO, MS, NC, OK, TN, TX, SC, VA, or WV. Accepted work
                        will be exhibited in one of two locations: The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries
                        of Contemporary Art at the University of Memphis and Gallery 121 at Belmont University
                        in Nashville. The two galleries will be connected through Skype the night of the opening
                        (May 20) and will be open to the public from May 16 – June 17, 2016. Juror: Chad Alligood,
                        Assistant Curator of Special Projects at Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art, Bentonville,
                        AR.
                     
                     
                     For more information, please visit  numberinc.org/art-of-the-south/
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     
                     Graphic Design Senior SHOW
                     
                     
                     
                     May 5, 2016
                     
                     Reception: Thursday, May 5, 6-8 PM
                     
                     Join us for a one-night only exhibition of works by graduating University of Memphis
                        undergraduate Graphic Design students. Presenters include Ethan Fowler, Hunter Hamilton,
                        Taylor Holland Nicole Lee, DaVario Looney, Shakeya Merriweather, Amanda Mize, Britany Neely, and
                        Amy Nguyen.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Spring 2016 MFA THESIS Exhibition
                     
                     April 11–29, 2016
                     
                     Opening Reception: Friday April 15, 5-8 PM
                     
                     Bless This Mess: Holt Brasher and Sarah Best Johnson
                     
                     Bless This Mess is the MFA thesis exhibition featuring the works of Holt Brasher and
                        Sarah Best Johnson. The title, a Southern colloquialism, reflects not only the two
                        artists' upbringing in Louisiana and Alabama respectively, but also various aspects
                        of their work included in the show itself.
                     
                     
                     Johnson's presentation is a culmination of drawings and paintings that critique the
                        infantilization of women, the forced gendering of children, and society's repressed
                        obsession with innocence. While decorated dolls are the focus of the paintings, the
                        drawings are a crude reinterpretation of images inspired by obstetrics textbooks.
                        The developing minds of children and the dolls they play with possess an innocence
                        that adults can no longer understand, yet the images she creates are haunting.
                     
                     
                     Meanwhile, Brasher's work tends to lean towards the "Mess" side. After a decision
                        to confront his identity shaped by the small, country town he grew up in, Brasher
                        began to create a body of work consisting of various installations that deals with
                        prevalent issues in his hometown. In his thesis work, he tackles the idea of the "Alpha
                        Redneck" and the poor health, addictions, and temperament that goes hand in hand with
                        the men identified as such. Influenced by actual men who seek to emulate this constructed
                        identity, he has crafted a presentation of their world through his own artistic stylings,
                        and welcomes viewers to join the conversation.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Left: Sarah Best Johnson, Red Baby , 2015. Oil on canvas. Courtesy of the artist.
                        
                        Right: Holt Brasher, Hed 1 , 2016. Woodcut, spray paint, and oil based ink. Courtesy of the artist.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     /pərˈsēv/ /tu/ /ikˈspōz/: Mariah Selitsch Fyke and Katherine Stanley
                     
                     /pərˈsēv/ /tu/ /ikˈspōz/ is the MFA thesis exhibition featuring photographic works by Mariah Selitsch Fyke
                        and Katherine Stanley.
                     
                     
                     Art has an ability to engage viewers by bringing them to a particular moment in a
                        situation and environment that the artist has created. Photographer Mariah Selitsch
                        Fyke has been singled out her entire life, predominantly by complete strangers, because
                        of the color of her skin and other physical attributes that would qualify her as different.
                        In the series "Interstice" (2016), Fyke is exploring what visual cues prompt people
                        to read her body as foreign, registering her as "other," in relation to a particular
                        space. She inserts herself into people's homes and daily routines and hides herself
                        in plain sight, often just showing her legs, to create a visual pun establishing a
                        foreign aesthetic. With her work, she creates an indirect confrontation with the viewer,
                        as her body is not always the first thing you see upon viewing the photographs.
                     
                     
                     Stanley's "Acquired Aberration" series (2015) explores the relationship between human
                        constructed experience and human landscape through the use of altered perception,
                        photographic language, and the passage of time. By constructing photographic montages,
                        the photograph becomes the vehicle through which we question our perception by transforming
                        our normal way of seeing. Borrowing cubist aesthetic strategies, the images physically
                        and internally change our focus and perspective with the use of numerous vantage points.
                        This removed sense of analysis alters our expectations and challenges what we think
                        we know. The photographic language becomes a dialogue and an exploration between the
                        familiar and the unsettling, the stable and the unstable, between believability and
                        disorientation.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Left: Mariah Selitsch Fyke, Untitled , "Interstice" series, 2016. Digital archival inkjet print, mounted on Styrene. Courtesy
                              of the artist.
                        
                        Right: Katherine Stanley, 00:10:18, "Acquired Aberration" series, 2015. ChromaLuxe
                           dye-sublimation metal print. Courtesy of the artist.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     
                     Spring 2016 BFA Studio Arts Exhibition
                     
                     
                     
                     IN FLUX, the spring 2016 BFA thesis exhibition, features works by nine graduating
                        seniors of The University of Memphis Department of Art: Addie Ray, Cassandra Wery,
                        Kayla Billings, Maggie McGrath, Malory Marlin, Mikeya Oliver, Ruben Garnica, Terrance
                        Mason and Zi Felton. The exhibition is a compilation of works in a variety of mediums
                        including painting, photography, sculpture, and installation art. The presentation
                        celebrates the completion of undergraduate studies and the culmination of each student's
                        artistic exploration and experiences. An opening reception will be held Friday, March
                        18th from 5-­8 PM in the galleries. The artists will also give a talk about their
                        work in the Art and Communication Building, Room 310, on March 23rd at 7 PM. All events
                        are free and open to the public.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     
                     Lawrence Matthews III, Cool Aint Cold (Newport), 2016. Digital archival inkjet print. Courtesy of the artist.
                     
                     
                     Lawrence Matthews III: The Marketing of Perception
                     
                     February 15 – March 4, 2016
                     
                     Opening Reception: Friday, February 19, 2016  5-8 PM
                     
                     The exhibition Lawrence Matthews III: The Marketing of Perception features Matthews' recent work exploring issues of race, image, and appropriation.
                        Derived from cigarette and alcohol advertisements in issues of Ebony magazine from
                        the 1960s and '70s, the artist's vibrant photographs of African-American men and women,
                        featured out of their original context, provoke questions of image making on both
                        literal and figurative levels. Stemming from Matthews' recent foray into photography,
                        the exhibition also includes the artist's trademark video installations comprised
                        of analog televisions playing commercials from the period.
                     
                     
                     On his subject matter, Matthews recalls, "In college, I began to collect copies of
                        Ebony from the 1960s and 70s. I was amazed by the progressiveness of the articles,
                        as well as the beautiful photography in the ads. They portrayed Black people as intelligent
                        and successful members of society. However, I began to notice nearly all of these
                        ads where for liquor and cigarettes. Brands I'd known as stereotypically "Black" such
                        as Newport, Seagrams, Hennessy, and Salem were repeated throughout the pages. I started
                        to wonder why products known to be harmful were featured so prominently in a magazine
                        existing to uplift Black Americans."
                     
                     
                     Matthews' close zoom brings to the forefront products once subtly placed in everyday
                        scenes while his deliberate cropping removes the ad copy that once surrounded these
                        images. His photographs take on new meaning as standalone images of cool, sexy, powerful,
                        and respectable individuals, yet under their veneer, also allude to a contentious,
                        racialized history of corporate power and blighted communities.
                     
                     
                     Lawrence Matthews III was born in Memphis, Tennessee, in 1991. His work ranges from
                        painting, collage, photography, and ready-made sculpture, to music and film. In 2014,
                        Matthews received his Bachelor of Fine Arts degree from the University of Memphis.
                        His work has been included in multiple solo and group exhibitions around the mid-south
                        including Caritas Village, Circuitous Succession Gallery, David Lusk Gallery, and
                        Crosstown Arts, among others. He has received numerous grants and awards including
                        Best of Show at The University of Memphis' 31st Annual Juried Student Exhibition in 2014, the Dean's Creative Achievement Award and Department of Art Creative Achievement
                        Award in 2015.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     
                     10th Annual Art Education Alumni Juried Exhibition
                     
                     February 15 – March 4, 2016
                     
                     Opening Reception: Friday, February 19, 2016  3:30-5 PM (awards presented at 4 PM)
                     
                     In its tenth year, the Annual Art Education Alumni Juried Exhibition features the work of area K-12 art educators who are graduates of The University
                        of Memphis Art Education Program, or who have completed coursework at the University
                        during their teaching preparation or careers. This year's exhibition theme is Finding
                        New Words Through Vision and Creativity. Every year, this exhibition is held during
                        Youth Art Month and is in accordance with the mission and vision of The University
                        of Memphis, the Department of Art, and the Tennessee Art Education Association. Award
                        winners will be selected by this year's judge, Jody Stokes-Casey, Interim Associate
                        Director of Education, Family and School Programs at the Memphis Brooks Museum of
                        Art.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     33RD ANNUAL JURIED STUDENT EXHIBITION FEATURES DIVERSE TALENTS
                     
                      
                     
                     Left to Right: Kelly Henderson,  Untitled,  2015. Photograph; Jarvis Boyland,  Black Boy  (detail), 2015. Oil on canvas; Ruben Garnica,  Untitled  (detail), 2015. Steel.
                     
                     A tradition for the past 33 years, the 2016 Annual Student Exhibition will feature works by 41 University of Memphis undergraduate and graduate students
                        who have taken courses in the Department of Art. From over 100 submissions, 44 works
                        have been selected by exhibition judge, Michael Aurbach, a Nashville-based artist-educator.
                        Showcasing the breadth and diversity of U of M's student talent, the exhibition is
                        comprised of various media, including ceramics, drawing, graphic design, painting,
                        photography, and sculpture. The exhibition will be on view in The Martha and Robert
                        Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art from January 22 to February 5, 2016, as its
                        normal venue, the Art Museum of the University of Memphis, remains closed for renovations.
                     
                     
                     Student awards have been generously sponsored by The University of Memphis Office
                        of the President, Graduate School, Fogelman College of Business & Economics, and Department
                        of Art, as well as by local institutions and businesses including the Memphis Brooks
                        Museum of Art, Metal Museum, Dixon Gallery and Gardens, National Civil Rights Museum,
                        and Art Center.
                     
                     
                     Related Programming
                     
                     
                     Michael Aurbach, Administrative Vision, 2013. Mixed media. Image courtesy of the artist.
                     
                     
                     "Three Decades of Making Stuff": Public Lecture by Michael Aurbach
                     
                     Thursday, January 21, 2016 7 PM
                     
                     
                     Art and Communication Building, Room 310 (3715 Central Avenue; Memphis, TN) Free and open to the public
                     
                     
                     Nashville-based artist-educator Michael Aurbach and exhibition judge will reflect
                        on the past three decades of his career. Mr. Aurbach is best known for his socially
                        inspired sculptures that addresses issues of identity, death, institutional power,
                        and contemporary forms of scholarship. He has been the recipient of numerous grants
                        and awards. Among the institutions and foundations that have provided support for
                        his work are the National Endowment for the Arts, the Southern Arts Federation, the
                        Tennessee Arts Commission, Art Matters Inc., the Puffin Foundation, the Beren Foundation,
                        and Vanderbilt University. From 2002-04, he served as president of the College Art
                        Association, the world's largest organization of visual arts professionals. In December 2015, Aurbach retired as Professor of Fine Arts at Vanderbilt University,
                        having taught sculpture and drawing since1986.
                     
                     
                     For more information, please visit the artist's website: www.aurbachsculpture.com
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Graphic Design Senior Show
                     
                     HEAD 'EM UP and MOVE 'EM OUT!
                     
                     
                        
                        When: Thursday, December 10th (6pm-8pm)
                        
                        Where: Fogelman Galleries
                        
                        Directions: Click Here
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     inveterate: toni collums roberts
                     
                     November 23 – December 4, 2015
                     
                     The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art
                     
                     
                     
                     The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art is pleased to present
                        inveterate: toni collums roberts. For this MFA thesis exhibition, Collums Roberts
                        has created a body work lacking the standards of today's visual culture. Spanning
                        both gallery spaces with an installation-based performance involving 8,000 plaster
                        cubes in one, and a video in the other, the exhibition is an attempt at creating a
                        fertile place for boredom to be generated, questioned, or ignored. The combination
                        of these elements creates a space for theories of art and philosophy to merge and
                        morph, examining the possibility that technology's perpetuation of boredom is at the
                        root of contemporary society's darkest fantasies.
                     
                     
                     Collums Roberts' performance will occur daily throughout the duration of the exhibition.
                     
                     The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art is open Monday through
                        Friday from 9 am to 4 pm, but will be closed November 25-29, for the Thanksgiving
                        holiday.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     FOOD
                     
                     November 13 – 20, 2015
                     
                     The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art is pleased to present
                        FOOD, a BFA thesis exhibition featuring works by eight graduating seniors of The University
                        of Memphis Department of Art. This presentation includes the work of Brooke Smith,
                        Adam Clark, Anna Irace, Terrell Harmon, Alli Lemon, Thomas Sully Allen, Anna Maranise,
                        and Zachary Morgan. These young artists' work ranges from ceramics, painting, and
                        sculpture to collage and bookmaking. The exhibition represents a culmination of their
                        individual explorations and experiences—navigating issues concerning relationships,
                        the media, semiotics, nature, and the unnatural.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Two UofM Exhibitions Celebrate Contemporary Folk Art
                     
                     
                     
                     October 7, 2015 - The exhibitions "The True Gospel Preached Here: Photographs by Bruce
                        West" and "Memphis Collects Contemporary Folk Art" at the Martha and Robert Fogelman
                        Galleries of Contemporary Art at the University of Memphis are on display now until
                        Nov. 6.
                     
                     
                     "The True Gospel Preached Here" features a selection of photographs by Bruce West
                        documenting the spiritual and creative work of the Rev. H. D. Dennis (1916-2012),
                        a self-proclaimed preacher, artist and architect, and his wife Margaret (1916-2009),
                        in Vicksburg, Miss. West's vibrant photographs explore the fantastic world of the
                        couple who devoted more than 20 years of their lives to converting Margaret's grocery
                        store into an eclectic nondenominational church.
                     
                     
                     Guided by visions from God, the Rev. H.D. and Margaret erected several painted towers,
                        constructed their own Ark of the Covenant and developed new religious iconography.
                        Rev. Dennis used his ever-evolving church as a roadside attraction to draw in visitors
                        to hear his fiery sermons and orations. A sign at the site's entrance proclaimed,
                        "The True Gospel Preached Here."
                     
                     
                     Spanning nearly 20 years and multiple site visits, West's photographs are both intimate
                        and bold, revealing the couple's love of God and one another, a sense of commitment
                        to one's work and the transformation of person and place. West is a professor in the
                        Department of Art and Design at Missouri State University. His photographs have appeared
                        in numerous exhibitions throughout the United States and Europe and are included in
                        museum collections such as the Ogden Museum of Southern Art, the Library of Congress,
                        the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art and the Victoria and Albert Museum.
                     
                     
                     Showcasing standout works from several local private collections, "Memphis Collects
                        Contemporary Folk Art" features the paintings, drawings and sculptures of more than
                        25 self-taught artists, ranging from Rev. Howard Finster, perhaps the South's most
                        famous contemporary folk artist, to the little-known Memphian Floyd "Pussum" Glover.
                        Highlighted are the unconventional materials used by these artists and the common
                        interests they share in religion, social issues and popular culture.
                     
                     
                     The exhibition also considers the usage of the terms "contemporary folk art" and "outsider
                        art." Contemporary folk art refers to work produced by unschooled artists of the 20th
                        and 21st centuries. Outsider art most appropriately describes the highly individualistic
                        creations of self-taught artists with atypical mental states or disabilities. Central
                        to both is their making at the hands of artists who have taught themselves. "Memphis
                        Collects Contemporary Folk Art" is curated by Dr. Carol Crown, professor emerita in
                        art history at the UofM. Crown is author of numerous publications including Coming
                        Home! Self-Taught Artists, The Bible, and the American South and The New Encyclopedia
                        of Southern Culture Volume 23: Folk Art.
                     
                     
                     "The True Gospel Preached Here: Photographs by Bruce West" and "Memphis Collects Contemporary
                        Folk Art" coincide with the Folk Art Society of America's annual conference, which
                        will be held in Memphis from Nov. 5-8. A free symposium featuring leading scholars
                        of folk art and music will be held Saturday, Nov. 7, from 9 a.m. to noon in 310 Art
                        and Communication Building at the UofM.
                     
                     
                     The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art are located in rooms
                        230 and 240 of the Art and Communication Building, 3715 Central Ave., and provide
                        vastly expanded professional display space for the Art Department. The galleries serve
                        as a valuable educational experience for our students. Additionally, it gives the
                        College of Communication and Fine Arts expanded capacity to bring contemporary working
                        artists to campus to enrich the curriculum and broaden our students' understanding
                        of today's art world within the national and international context.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     WHITE(S) ONLY seeks to reexamine "whiteness" in the United States from the early twentieth century
                        to the present. Comprised of 22 works by Lester Julian Merriweather, the exhibition
                        elaborates the themes, beliefs, and passions that have concocted America's ideologies
                        in its struggle to deal within and against established institutions, often directly
                        engaging their social contexts. Several works appear as renditions of beloved (to
                        some) icons in a conscious effort to unsettle assumptions about America's racial climate.
                     
                     Lester Julian Merriweather, Hooded , 2015. Wood, plastic, and acrylic latex, 12 x 12 x 12 in. Courtesy of the artist.
                     
                     
                     The exhibition title,  WHITE(S) ONLY , comes primarily from a loaded history of signage that was commonplace to the American
                        era of Jim Crow and the South African era of apartheid. Metaphorically, the title
                        seeks to examine the ever-changing language that encompasses "whiteness" in very literal
                        visual forms. It also underscores the difficulty of neatly defining the country's
                        ethos and inhabitants, a challenge that lies at the heart of understanding America's
                        continually evolving relationship with People of Color. The exhibition's narrative
                        stems from an unending search for culturally in-sensitive titling of everyday household
                        items (specifically here, paint products). The exhibition's installation is a combination
                        of new works on canvas and silkscreens juxtaposed with related found imagery and objects.
                     
                     
                     WHITE(S) ONLY constitutes a kind of collective memory—one that represents a range of conflicting
                        attitudes toward what America might represent to some as well as what that representation
                        means to/for others. By simultaneously mining and questioning our past, we do not
                        arrive at a comprehensive conclusion, but at a moment ripe with new questions for
                        all to consider. All works are courtesy of the artist.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     The Attendant
                     
                     August 24 – September 25, 2016 Opening Reception: Friday, August 28, 2016 5-8 PM
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Hamlett Dobbins, Untitled (For M.A.B.T./P.A.D.P.L.) , 2015. Acrylic on canvas, 40 x 48 in. Courtesy of the artist and David Lusk Gallery.
                     
                     
                     Hamlett Dobbins: The Attendant encompasses a body of recent abstract paintings by artist Hamlett Dobbins, inspired
                        by his interactions with particular people. Though labeled "Untitled," each painting's
                        name is followed by a series of initials—for instance, Untitled (Notes on F.B./J.P.B./G.L.M./T.J.J.) —denoting the person for whom the work was made.
                     
                     
                     Because the works are based on a specific experience with an individual, each painting
                        tends to have its own sets of parameters and challenges. Discussing the work, Dobbins
                        says, "I use painting to focus on an experience and to wrap myself in the moment.
                        By building the experience I begin to understand what about the moment moved me to
                        paint in the first place." Reverence for these moments can be felt through the meticulousness
                        of Dobbins lines and his color specificity.
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Exhibitions
                        
                           
                              
                              Current
                              Upcoming
                              Past
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Visit
                              Open Monday through Friday, 9 am to 4 pm
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Located in the Art and Communication Building
                           
                           
                              Support
                              There are many ways in which you can support The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries
                                 of Contemporary Art.
                              
                           
                           
                              Join our Mailing List
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/11/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/fogelmangalleries/exhibitions/past.php
