https://blogs.memphis.edu/academicadvisingnetwork/
=======================================================================================












		
		














 


			

        		
		






    
        Main menu
        Skip to content
        
        Home Sample Page
        
    

	
    
	
	    
    
      
		
			Academic Advising Network
			Just another University of Memphis Blogs site
			
				
					Search for:
					
					
				
					
      
	
    
        
        

			
								
					

		
    	
            Nov
            08
            2016
        
		November General Meeting

				
			Posted by  aksavage		
			
    
    

		
		Cody and Jenna called the meeting to order, and off we go!
Announcements:
Patsy: transfer/new admits advising, we just got the lists, the ACC can advise the new freshman just like they did in the summer, Arts and Sciences is doing this.
College scheduler is up and running, students received emails yesterday about it
Tiger Learning Communities: up and running for the spring, no themes, pretty general. Soon we will be getting a way to submit a proposal from our department about learning communities we want to design. The link will be sent out to us via AAN listserv. The communities don’t need to be just for freshman—sophomore and junior level an option as well. OK to send questions to Vanessa Brocks.
Center for Innovative Teaching and Learning Job Postings available!—experiential learning credit coordinator and a finish line advisor.
Karen Thurmond: Bright Space Degree Compass (formerly known as “courses to consider)– We looked at the test version of this application. It’s pretty straight forward. You’ll need the student ID, hit submit, and it will give you course predictions for the student, you can organize them by requirement. There are circles now instead of stars (for predicting student success) but the student wont see them, you will. You want to recommend students into courses that have a rating of 4 or 5, anything less correlate to less success. The percentages do NOT equal grade, its a predictor of how well the student will perform based on their over all GPA. So if they’re a C student, they’ll perform at the percentage of their C work (if the percentage says 70% than they’ll do 70% of a C average, so not very well! Recommend into a class with a higher percentage.)
REMEMBER! It’s just a recommendation! It’s an algorithm that should help predict success, it doesn’t guarantee it nor is it the only tool to use.
Webinar Opportunity: Foreclosed students. You can read the description here for more information. Foreclosed students are students that already have their mind made up, regardless of how well or poorly they’re doing in their discipline. The webinar is Wednesday, Dec 14.
Jenna Financial Aid: We received copies of the emails Fin Aid sent out last week (I will scan and post here this week.) These are emails that students received if they filled out their FAFSA. SOme students have conflicting information, and if that’s the case their aid for spring was/will be placed on hold until they can resolve the issue. Have students go by Fin Aid (Wilder 103) for issues. Some fixes are easy (household changes.) Income info might be different if the student estimated income, and it’s possible that the income needs to be accurately resolved. So far 200 students have been identified with conflicting info.
We also received info for students that were selected for random verification but didn’t file their taxes for 2015.
There was a lot of information so I’ll just post the worksheets, I’m afraid I will get things incorrect here.
We really just need to function as support for Fin Aid: send students to them to get the information they need, they will sit and work with the students to resolve these problems as they arise.
Yolanda Matthews: Fresh Start– academic forgiveness, allows students to resume study without being penalized for past unsatisfactory progress. It’s TBR policy (will it continue?)
Requirements for Fresh Start: separated from all regionally accredited institutions for four consecutive calendar years. Student needs to be referred immediately after admission. They must be degree seeking. GPA must be under 2.5 GPA (inclusive). It cannot be 2.5. It cannot be 2.7. They can’t already have an undergrad degree. Yolanda has a good powerpoint, I’ll see if she will send it to me.
We’ve increased from 9 in 2012 to 107 in 2016–students only have to wait 4 years instead of 7, which has helped a lot. Students get an academic fresh start, but not a financial aid fresh start. If you have a veteran, their vet benefits aren’t going to acknowledge the academic fresh start. But they’ll be eligible for scholarships, etc, outside of the financial aid/federal aid.
Mary Brignole (CARES) and Carol Danehower (Provosts Fellow and Professor in the School of Business): Beyond Financial Aid: Looking for ways to assist students that don’t have anything to do with their financial aid. Some ideas of what they’re looking for: finding a way to make textbooks more affordable, can we help with affording access codes, do we have emergency funds for students that might have exhausted financial aid and need some funds. Mary gave a nice shout out to my own personal project and labor of love: Clio’s Closet, our clothing closet for interview clothes and food pantry. Other issues include transportation, work, and anything that stands in the way.
One thing we can do immediately is be open and available for students to tell us what their needs might be, and how we might help them. We often cannot know if students have roadblocks if they don’t tell us, or if they don’t know.
Another great resource is the link Student Affairs put out for Crisis Resources inside and outside the university.
A survey (small school) indicated that financial problems and then transportation problems are the main barriers to finishing school. (On a personal note, this mirrors my own research in the history department–when examining DWF rates most of our students failing both UD and LD classes are experiencing financial problems.)
Mary and Carol are trying to coordinate everyone’s efforts, because many departments are doing their own initiatives to make this easier for students.
CARES office is ALSO posting a job opening: CARES counselor 1, should be posted soon.
CARES is also seeing readmitted students on a 1:1 basis.
Warning students: under 60 hours will do a warning tutorial and go to coaching biweekly. (Online students?)
Over 60 hours: no coaching, but still do the warning tutorial.
ACAD 2200 was online, competency based, and next term will be non-credit, not graded, continuing ed course (for anyone on probation the first time.) This makes it free for students.
If they continue on basis they will see CARES counselors on a bi-weekly basis.
Suspended students will have to file an appeal and see a CARES counselor.
Registrar’s office : electronic major change form (yay!! I am one of the habitual major change offenders that I am sure both A&S and the Registrar hate.) Form is available in the portal. Advisors have it only, not the students. You can use either the students UUID or their name. Drop down menu for updating the graduation and catalog terms, and effective term for the major change.
Advisors will have an opportunity to look at the form and suggest changes before it goes live. We will send it out via the AAN listserv.
December AAN Party December 13 at 9am! Don’t forget we have our end of the term brunch meeting–bring your favorite breakfast food to share with the group. Last year we had a baller spread, so let’s try to top that this year! I’d like to request more of the breakfast casseroles, I think we had two and I ate them both and they were amazing. More of those please!
 
			
	
	
					
					
				Leave a comment
		 | 
		
			


				
					

		
    	
            Oct
            11
            2016
        
		October General Meeting

				
			Posted by  aksavage		
			
    
    

		
		Join the AAN Facebook Group
Well, your faithful(less?) blogger was late to this meeting (sorry!) so I’ll amend these notes with updates after I hear about the first 15 minutes. Or if I can convince Patsy Krech to share her notes with me on this blog.
Ryan is doing some college scheduling updates for the new College Scheduler. It’s a more sophisticated way to select classes, but I am honestly here so late into his presentation that I have no idea what I’m looking at–but I will soon!
There will be a soft roll-out for students before it goes totally live, and Ryan’s team will send out instructional videos and handouts, particularly hand outs for students–for advisors to give to students during advising.
It’ll appear on the registrars webpage, but we will cross-post on the AAN page.
If a student has a plan in the new UM Degree plan then they can access that plan from the scheduler.
Fredrika Cowley is talking about Early Intervention with us today. We reviewed what early intervention is, why we have it, it’s to facilitate communication between students, faculty, and staff, to alert people to potential problems, and intervene before students are in too much trouble academically.
2800 early intervention alerts submitted since fall term began, and for 2000 individual students (so multiple alerts/many students.)
We need more faculty participation. My questions 1.) Many of our faculty don’t think early intervention goes anywhere–is there a way to relay that information back? 2.) What CAN we say–can we alert to specific classes, specific issues? What should our emails say?
Students also not reading or responding to the email.
Early Intervention flow chart: how do advisors need to f/u?
CARES is sympathetic to how much time this takes, but appreciates when we reach out to students, and then we need to take the next step: fill out that survey. (I’ll insert the link here.)
Centralized link location?? On the dashboard?
What else is part of the advisors role? 1.) Discuss the issues, 2.) refer to available campus resources, 3.) discuss other options for that student, even if it means changing majors.
AND THEN: follow up with CARES. Very important.
What information SHOULD be included when you reach out to students?
Faculty feedback loop: how to close it?
Attendance reporting AND early intervention–do we need both? Can we do it earlier? Can that happen earlier? Can we combine those? can we appoint a team for that?
Can advisors follow up with faculty? Yes!
When do early interventions become irrelevant? What kind of communication is expected from us after that point?
Amanda Lee talked about Teaching and Learning Advisory Committee and Food Insecurities, and will update this blog post later to reflect that.
Academic Advising Kickoff Debrief:
Time of the Year: Late Sept is best for most respondents
Full Day or Half Day: about split re: full day/half day, so let’s revisit this for next year–but remember it’s come and go, attend what you can and want, don’t have to attend everything.
What do do differently? Apparently everything and nothing. 
AAN Topics: multicultural advising, study abroad to come by and talk, customer service, scholarships, and CARES.
			
	
	
					
					
				Leave a comment
		 | 
		
			


				
					

		
    	
            May
            13
            2016
        
		The curriculum of advising

				
			Posted by  Karen Thurmond		
			
    
    

		
		During our discussion of the new financial responsibility statement at AAN I made the statement that the financial responsibility statement is now part of the curriculum of advising. I was questioned about that statement by a few of you. Amanda Lee gave me permission to share details here.
My statement is an allusion to an understanding of  academic advising as central to higher education.  What is it we do in higher education?  We are teaching and learning institutions. As Dr Rudd put it in a recent email “student success, knowledge creation, research innovation and community service.” All of what we do collectively leads to that end. I understand myself to be an agent of learning, growth, and change in my interactions with students  I hope you do too! Academic advising is teaching and, for many students, the place where you help them discover new knowledge.
So if academic advising is teaching, what do we teach?  And how do we teach it? There is a wide and varied curriculum for our teaching. It includes (and certainly is not limited to) that which we decide our students need to navigate their experiences as students and citizens.  You only need to review our General Education curriculum to understand the breadth of this teaching task. Our methodology for how we teach is embedded in training. The understanding of why we teach is outlined in our philosophical and theoretical base in Terry O’Banion’s model from way back in 1972.
So are new policies part of the curriculum of advising?  They better be. Will your students need the policy to navigate their experiences as students and citizens? They will.  Do you know if they will observe and understand the policy? You don’t. You can take on a role in teaching this new information as a partner with (in this case) the bursar’s office.
It takes time and preparation to teach.  The teacher must be proficient in the subject matter prior to teaching. Our institution wants us to be effective teachers/advisors and is holding us accountable for this. Are there circumstances that make it difficult for you to live up to that expectation? I enthusiastically encourage you to consider that circumstance and make (I want to say demand but this implies that someone else might change it for you) changes that facilitate the kind of relationships and advising interactions that lead to student success.
What you teach in advising has the potential to change your student’s future. That’s the curriculum of advising. Continue reading →
			
	
	
					
					
				Leave a comment
		 | 
		
			


				
					

		
    	
            May
            10
            2016
        
		AAN Elections for 2016-17!

				
			Posted by  aksavage		
			
    
    

		
		AAN would like to announce the 2016-17 AAN elections!
 
Positions

Co-Chair
Co-Chair
AAN Recorder

 
Co-Chair Duties include: two AAN members serving in leadership together. Their duties include participation in planning the Annual Academic Advising Kickoff, planning and leading monthly meetings in collaboration with the Director of Academic Advising, and communicating with AAN members concerning important issues that impact academic advising.
Recorder duties include: participation in planning the Annual Academic Advising Kickoff, planning and leading monthly meetings in collaboration with the Director of Academic Advising and AAN co-chairs, providing AAN members with meeting announcements and reminders, making notes/minutes in monthly meetings, and making regular entries in the AAN blog (including but not limited to the notes/minutes.)
Nominations for these positions will be open from 16-May to 27-May. Voting will run from 6-June until 24-June, and we will announce the results soon thereafter.
Leadership will transition in July, and be introduced to AAN community at the July 19 th AAN meeting.
For the nominations: please submit a photograph for the ballot, as well as a short bio and a statement about your vision for AAN. Co-chairs may run separately and be voted on separately, or you may run as a two-person team (and we can vote on teams.)
Make your nominations now!
			
	
	
					
					
				Leave a comment
		 | 
		
			


				
					

		
    	
            Feb
            05
            2016
        
		Topics for March Meeting?

				
			Posted by  aksavage		
			
    
    

		
		If you’d like to submit a topic or issue for our March Meeting please leave it in the comments!
			
	
	
					
						
				Tagged AAN , concerns , issues , meetings , monthly meetings , suggestions , topics			
			 | 
					
				Leave a comment
		 | 
		
			


				
					

	
		Professional development opportunities to add to your calendar!
	

	
		**If you’d like to submit any events please leave them in the comments and I’ll add them to the next calendar round up.
UPCOMING EVENTS
Next AAN Meeting: March 8 th 1:30pm UC Sentate Chambers
NACADA TN State Drive-In : March 11th at TN Technological University

NACADA Regional Conference : April 20-22 in Chattanooga, TN

MIMSAC: May 20 th , 2016 (CFP Deadline is March 18)
NACADA National Conference : October 5-8, 2016 in Atlanta, Georgia (CFP open until 25-Feb)

			

	
		Posted by  aksavage				 | 
		1 Comment
					


				
					

		
    	
            Feb
            04
            2016
        
		Meeting Minutes from 12-January

				
			Posted by  aksavage		
			
    
    

		
		Hello everyone,
We had a great turn out at our first meeting!
We started with some announcements.
Yolanda Matthews, our point person for Fresh Start , updated us that program’s new policies. You can (and should!) read the policy revisions here. Most of it stayed the same (students must be separated from an academic institution for four or more years, they must be degree seeking, cannot have earned an undergraduate degree before, and cannot have benefited from Fresh Start previously.)
Changes to the Fresh Start application will now exclude the College Dean’s signature NOT that of the Graduation Analyst.
The role of the advisors in this program will be to look for students with a low GPA and a four-year gap in their education. Advisors can refer them to CARES (678-2393) and CARES will determine whether or not the student is eligible for the program.
Tracy Robinson made some announcements about Tennessee Reconnect. The goal of this THEC program is to connect to adult students and assist them in their return to University of Memphis. The campaign is targeting anyone 50% completed with their degree; however, we know that many may come with less than 50 % completed because television ads have been launched statewide. We want to welcome all adult students whether returning or just getting started. Internally, Cecilia Olivares in CARES will serve as the point person to “triage” the students. However, we know that these students are likely to enter or re-enter the institution through many different avenues. If students have 90 credits or higher, you can refer them to Finish Line, and that program will look into the student’s transcript to see how the university can assist the student with his or her degree completion. You may also refer them to Cecilia or reconnect@memphis.edu for those “triage” services. One of the most significant issues returning students face is debt. The university is working with TSAC to help students explore their financial options.
 
We also discussed how to engage with the students in the “murky middle”–eligible students that are successful, but haven’t registered, or don’t follow through with their obligations. We will spend much of the semester working on this issue.
There were some issues with the new portal but most were resolved. We had a few other announcements (such as flagging students unnecessarily repeating courses!!) but we should have more information about those next month.
 
 
			
	
	
					
					
				Leave a comment
		 | 
		
			


				
					

	
		Welcome to the new AAN blog!
	

	
		Hello advisors, administrators, analysts, advocates, and all others that serve the student population here at UM,
Welcome to our new AAN blog site. We will use this site to post the minutes from our meetings, make announcements, and share information, best practices, and follow up on any concerns you bring to our meetings.
			

	
		Posted by  aksavage				 | 
		Leave a comment
					


				
				
			
         

        		
        
        	            
            
				                
                 
                   
                                                			
            
			
				
					Search for:
					
					
				
							Recent Posts		
					
				November General Meeting
						
					
				October General Meeting
						
					
				The curriculum of advising
						
					
				AAN Elections for 2016-17!
						
					
				Topics for March Meeting?
						
				
				Recent Comments Karen Thurmond on Professional development opportunities to add to your calendar! Archives		
			November 2016
	October 2016
	May 2016
	February 2016
	January 2016
		
		Categories		
	Uncategorized

		
Meta			
						Log in
			Entries RSS
			Comments RSS
			blogs.memphis.edu
						
		

     
        

	
		
			
			© Academic Advising Network                        - Powered by Edublogs
			 and WPThemes.co.nz
                        
		
	


	
	
        

        




		
							Skip to toolbar
						
				
		University of Memphis
		University Home		
		Memphis Blogs		
		Blogging Help				
		Log In		
		Search					
					

		

https://blogs.memphis.edu/academicadvisingnetwork/
