http://www.memphis.edu/advising/advisors/untitled.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Academic Advising
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Find My Advisor
                        Students
                        Parents
                        Advisors
                        Contact Us
                     
                     
                        
                           For Advisors
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Professional Development
                                       
                                       Advising Blog
                                       
                                       Academic Advising Network
                                       
                                       Advising Development
                                       
                                       Advising Roles and Respnsibilities
                                       
                                       Distinguished Advising Award
                                       
                                       Learning Curve
                                       
                                       NACADA
                                       
                                       First Generation Faculty Advocates
                                    
                                 
                                 Resources
                                       Academic Calender
                                       Advising Handbook
                                       Advisor Directory
                                       Banner Guides & Aids
                                       Campus Resources for Advisors
                                       Early Intervention 
                                       Forms
                                       NSO Dashboard Instructions
                                       Registration Error Messages
                                       Registration Quick Guide
                                       UMdegree
                                       Advisor's Authorization 
                                       Transfer Policy FAQ
                                    
                                 
                                 Getting Started for Advisors
                                       Banner Forms
                                       I Need Help With...
                                       Procedure for Advising
                                       Advisor's Quick Guide
                                       RODP FAQs
                                       Student Directory Handout
                                       UMdegree Instructions
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Advising
                              	
                        
                              	For Adviosrs
                              	
                        Academic Advising Network 
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Advising Information for Faculty and Staff
                     
                     Tennessee Board of Regents (TBR) policy concerning transfer credits
                     
                     A new Tennessee Board of Regents (TBR) policy concerning transfer credit has been
                        approved and will take effect the beginning of Summer 2015 (i.e., June 1, 2015). As
                        a TBR institution we are following the TBR timeline to implement this new policy.
                     
                     
                     Students taking courses at another school Summer 2015 (or later) to have transfer
                        work sent back to UofM for your academic record should be aware of and consider the
                        following:
                     
                     
                     What Is Changing about Transfer Credit
                     
                     
                        
                        Beginning with Summer 2015, grades associated with transfer coursework taken from
                           that point forward will not be used in calculating the Cumulative Overall GPA or the
                           Cumulative Overall Combined GPA. (I have a question about this)
                        
                     
                     
                     See what questions others asked about this (and the answers!)
                     
                     What Remains the Same about Transfer Credit
                     
                     
                        
                        It is still important that the student report any coursework taken at other institutions. (I have a question about this)
                        
                     
                     
                     See what questions others asked about this (and the answers!)
                     
                     
                        
                        Grades will be recorded on the UofM record so that they will be available to the advisor
                           and the graduation analyst. (I have a question about this)
                        
                     
                     
                     See what questions others asked about this (and the answers!)
                     
                     
                        
                        Grades for work taken as part of UofM's Study Abroad program will continue to be posted
                           to the academic record and reflected in the Cumulative Overall GPA and the Cumulative
                           Overall Combined GPA. (I have a question about this)
                        
                     
                     
                     See what questions others asked about this (and the answers!)
                     
                     
                        
                        Credit hours for coursework passed at other institutions will continue to be reflected
                           in the UofM earned hours. (I have a question about this)
                        
                     
                     
                     See what questions others asked about this (and the answers!)
                     
                     
                        
                        The University's current repeat policy will remain in effect. (I have a question about this)
                        
                     
                     
                     See what questions others asked about this (and the answers!)
                     
                     
                        
                        Transfer work already on the record for terms prior to Summer 2015 will continue to
                           be reflected in the Cumulative Overall GPA and the Cumulative Overall Combined GPA. (I have a question about this)
                        
                     
                     
                     See what questions others asked about this (and the answers!)
                     
                     Students who plan to attend other institutions to have coursework transferred back
                              to UofM are being instructed to discuss their plans with the advisor first. If you
                              need clarification, please use the question submission buttons above, or the link
                              below.
                     
                     I have a question that is not directly connected to any of the points above.
                     
                     See what questions others asked about this (and the answers!)
                     
                     Frequently Asked Questions and Answers
                     
                     1. Beginning with Summer 2015, grades associated with transfer coursework taken from
                              that point forward will not be used in calculating the Cumulative Overall GPA or the
                              Cumulative Overall Combined GPA.
                     
                     Question : What if a student attends another institution for the purpose of replacing a UofM
                        grade to satisfy a requirement for a particular program. Will the program have to
                        calculate the replaced grade for program entry on their own?
                     
                     
                     Answer: UMdegree will continue to calculate a program GPA. For me information about the calculation
                        of program GPA in UMdegree, contact kthurmnd@memphis.edu
                     
                     Question: Does this policy, or will this policy sometime in the future, apply to graduate
                           students as well?
                     
                     Answer: The policy is being applied only to the undegraduate gpa at this time.
                     
                     
                     Question : Does this apply to all transfer work, 2 year/4 year schools from TN or anywhere
                        else?
                     
                     
                     Answer: The policy applies to all undergraduate transfer credit.
                     
                     
                     2. It is still important that the student report any coursework taken at other institutions.
                     
                     3. Grades will be recorded on the UofM record so that they will be available to the
                           advisor and the graduation analyst.
                     
                     Question : Is the UofM record the transcript currently available in Self Service Banner?
                     
                     
                     Answer : Yes, the Student Academic Transcript (Academic Transcript) is the UofM record.
                     
                     
                     4. Grades for work taken as part of UofM's Study Abroad program will continue to be posted
                              to the academic record and reflected in the Cumulative Overall GPA and the Cumulative
                              Overall Combined GPA.
                     
                     Question: What other types of credit will be taken into account for the ʺCombined GPAʺ? Will
                        it just be the students' University of Memphis coursework plus any credit from study
                        abroad? What other types of coursework might factor into the Combined GPA, if any,
                        since transfer grades will no longer be reflected there.
                     
                     
                     Answer : Our Office of Admissions adds credit from Advanced Placement, CLEP, DSST, and the
                        like UofM credit through transfer credit for administrative purposes, but everything
                        is loaded with "S" grades which will not count in GPA anyway.
                     
                     
                     5. Credit hours for coursework passed at other institutions will continue to be reflected
                              in the UofM earned hours.
                     
                     6. The University's current repeat policy will remain in effect.
                     
                     Question: Will the 2nd grade from the transfer institution be included in the GPA, or will
                        the first grade just be excluded without the replacement?
                     
                     
                     Answer : If a student has two attempts of a course with the second attempt being in transfer
                        credit, the transfer course will be assigned a grade that only counts in earned hours
                        (example: TA). The first attempt will be marked with an exclude indicator and will
                        be completely removed from the student's statistics. The second attempt will be marked
                        with an include indicator; however, the include will only be for earned hours. The
                        "A" will not be included in the GPA.
                     
                     
                     7. Transfer work already on the record for terms prior to Summer 2015 will continue
                              to be reflected in the Cumulative Overall GPA and the Cumulative Overall Combined
                              GPA.
                     
                     8. I have a question that is not directly connected to any of the points above.
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        For Advisors
                        
                           
                              
                              Professional Development
                                    
                                    Advising Blog
                                    
                                    Academic Advising Network
                                    
                                    Advising Development
                                    
                                    Advising Roles and Respnsibilities
                                    
                                    Distinguished Advising Award
                                    
                                    Learning Curve
                                    
                                    NACADA
                                    
                                    First Generation Faculty Advocates
                                 
                              
                              Resources
                                    Academic Calender
                                    Advising Handbook
                                    Advisor Directory
                                    Banner Guides & Aids
                                    Campus Resources for Advisors
                                    Early Intervention 
                                    Forms
                                    NSO Dashboard Instructions
                                    Registration Error Messages
                                    Registration Quick Guide
                                    UMdegree
                                    Advisor's Authorization 
                                    Transfer Policy FAQ
                                 
                              
                              Getting Started for Advisors
                                    Banner Forms
                                    I Need Help With...
                                    Procedure for Advising
                                    Advisor's Quick Guide
                                    RODP FAQs
                                    Student Directory Handout
                                    UMdegree Instructions
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              UMdegree
                              Worksheet and planner for information about academic requirements.
                           
                           
                              Courses to Consider
                              Course recommendations just for you!
                           
                           
                              Appointment - Plus
                              Make your advising appointment today!
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 3/9/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/advising/advisors/untitled.php
