http://www.memphis.edu/cs/career_opportunities/past_interns.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Computer Science
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Future Students
                        Current Students
                        Research
                        People
                        Contact
                     
                     
                        
                           Career Opportunities
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Internships
                                 Past Interns
                                 Job Listings
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Computer Science
                              	
                        
                              	Career Opportunities
                              	
                        Past Interns
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Past Interns
                     
                     Summer 2016
                     
                     
                        
                        Rajendra Banjade , graduate ZeroChaos
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Heather Duke , undergraduate FedEx
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Jacob Ellis , undergraduate ALSAC/St. Jude
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Shanshan Gao , graduate Facebook
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Josh Restuccio , undergraduate Windfall Revenue Solutions
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Ruchi Ruchi , graduate Express Scripts, Inc.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Borhan Samei , graduate Innova
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Michael Slauson , undergraduate International Paper
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Megha Vashisht , graduate FedEx Services
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Kevin Williams , undergraduate ALSAC/St. Jude
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Peter Zhang , undergraduate AutoZone
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Spring 2016
                     
                     
                        
                        Kyle Kalmon , undergraduate ALSAC/St. Jude
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Adam Taylor , undergraduate 8th Day Software and Consulting
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Kevin Townsend , undergraduate U of M Department of Bioinformatics
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Ruze Zhou , undergraduate Germantown Parks and Recreation
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Fall 2015
                     
                     
                        
                        Austin Feldvebel , undergraduate ALSAC/St. Jude  "My main project has been dealing with unengaged emails. I analyzed a list of close
                              to 800,000 emails in order to figure out who these people are and what exceptions
                              or excuses there may be for these donors not responding to any emails. After several
                              reports and analyses I worked on building the business requirements document for the
                              change to resolve this un-engagement issue." 
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Michael Hollister , undergraduate CrossBrowserTesting.com "For my project I implemented Swagger.io with Crossbrowsertesting.com’s API in YAML
                              and produced SDK clients in Java, Ruby, Node.js/JavaScript, and Python, testing each
                              of these client SDKs in each language. The API clients will give customers easier
                              access to the API and overall create a better service experience for them and also
                              bring more customers to the business."
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Cannon Moyer , undergraduate The Final Touch Security, LLC "I was involved in new product development, web development, and software development.
                              One of the projects consisted of creating a web based ticketing system for one of
                              our customers. This ticketing system allowed better organization of their service
                              technicians."
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Enyil Padilla Valle , undergraduate FedEx Services "I had a great experience at my internship. I was treated as an equal within the company
                              and gained real work experience. My team and I developed a mobile application for
                              internal use. I was able to take the position of lead developer. The application’s
                              business value is to provide information executives need to be aware of the company’s
                              current status. The app was developed for Android/iOS and we presented it to over
                              50 people. Then, I was offered an Advance Internship over the spring to support, update,
                              and get the app ready for production. All this gave me the opportunity to develop
                              a real product, gain around 1 year of work experience, and get a job offer before
                              my graduation."
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Md Fahad Polash , graduate Intel "I was involved in gathering performance data for iSCSI target on a platform, porting
                              MSI-X SATA patch for next generation platform, and network virtualization pathfinding
                              POC."
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Sandeep Ramesh , graduate FedEx Services "I continued my work from the summer on VMs and cloud computing, managing the infrastructure
                              for FedEx's ROADS (Route and Decision Support Systems) application. I got trained
                              on technologies such as Linux, XML, and WebLogics."
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Bobby Richmond , undergraduate International Paper "My internship was with the Telecommunications department of International Paper,
                              and I mostly did database work. The section I worked with was in charge of a network
                              monitoring application with a web interface. We worked to combine the several original
                              servers into a single server as well as improving some customized queries for metrics.
                              I also assisted with basic switch configuration, and took a few of the related classes
                              offered by International Paper on Cisco devices."
                        
                     
                     
                     Summer 2015
                     
                     
                        
                        Herve Aniglo , undergraduate FedEx Services "My team and I used AEM (Adobe Experience Manager) to turn FedEx.com into a platform
                              for customization. Customers and companies can customize the website according to
                              their own requirements."
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Sri Annamreddi , graduate FedEx Services "I used the Tableau software to automate a report generation process that used to
                              require manually pulling data from various sources. The person responsible for these
                              reports can now accomplish in 2 minutes what used to take 45 minutes."
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Venkata Chikkala , graduate FedEx Services "I completed 2 mobile apps that run on both Android and iOS devices, including tablets.
                              I also developed a RESTful web service to interact with the apps."
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Austin Feldvebel , undergraduate ALSAC/St. Jude "I performed analysis for an email hygiene project and wrote documentation for the
                              proposed automation process. I wrote SQL queries and built reports, and I was able
                              to participate in many St. Jude events on-site."
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Ricky Graziosi , undergraduate AutoZone "I learned multiple distributions of Linux, learned basic and intermediate bash shell
                              scripting as well as basic Python web app programming, and aided in starting Security
                              Operation Center and acted as a SOC analyst. As an intern at AutoZone there are many
                              opportunities to explore in the IT department and the ones mentioned are just a small
                              sample."
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Ted Parsons , undergraduate UT Health Science Center "I worked on developing a video game targeted at junior high and high school students
                              to help them make healthy life choices. The game is an old-school platformer and runs
                              on mobile devices. Over the summer I was able to implement the layout and collision
                              data of levels 2-12, gameplay mechanics, and platforming engine, and laid the foundation
                              for the 43 enemy objects."
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Sandeep Ramesh , graduate FedEx Services "I got a great opportunity to be a part of the Infrastructure team at FedEx. I managed
                              the infrastructure for one of the biggest applications used at FedEx called ROADS,
                              which basically gives a shortest route to all the drivers who work at the hubs to
                              deliver the packages. I handled all infrastructure activities starting from assigning
                              the resources, building the application, and finally deploying it on a cluster of
                              virtual machines. I managed 3 clusters of VM's, each containing about 15 servers.
                              Along with this I was also assigned to be a part of the transition process that was
                              taking place to move the applications to the cloud."
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Morgan Steffy , undergraduate Pickle "Pickle is a new startup company in Memphis. I worked as a software engineer focusing
                              mainly on writing Objective-C. I helped restructure existing code to better fit the
                              MVVC pattern as well as build out new features including a share via Facebook option
                              and restructuring the navigation. My work was mainly focused on Objective-C, but I
                              also spent some time writing JavaScript functions for our database and PHP scripts
                              to use for internal webpages."
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Career Opportunities
                        
                           
                              
                              Internships
                              Past Interns
                              Job Listings
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              News & Events
                              Weekly colloquium talks and other events
                           
                           
                              Career Opportunities
                              Internship information and job postings for students
                           
                           
                              Degree Programs
                              Information on our degree and certificate programs
                           
                           
                              Courses
                              Recent syllabi for our courses
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/22/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/cs/career_opportunities/past_interns.php
