http://www.memphis.edu/cs/career_opportunities/job_listings.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Computer Science
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Future Students
                        Current Students
                        Research
                        People
                        Contact
                     
                     
                        
                           Career Opportunities
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Internships
                                 Past Interns
                                 Job Listings
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Computer Science
                              	
                        
                              	Career Opportunities
                              	
                        Job Listings
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Job Listings
                     
                     These are job postings received by our faculty and staff. Additional job opportunities
                        may be available on the following sites:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        U of M Internships Office
                        
                        
                        
                        AfterCollege career network
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Desktop Support Technician, Community Mortgage, Cordova, TN
                     
                     Posted on 2016-11-04
                     
                     I’m looking for an upcoming or recent grad to fill a full-time 8-5p Desktop Support
                        Technician position in Cordova. I would consider part-time for a while for an upcoming
                        grad. The main responsibility is general helpdesk, but there are opportunities to
                        gain experience in infosec, programming, graphic design, web design, and marketing
                        if interested. Excellent work-life balance and a great opportunity to begin building
                        a career (most of our employees have been with the company 10+ years).
                     
                     
                     Required Skills:
                     
                     Windows 7, MS Office, Adobe Acrobat & Reader, LAN, WLAN, Basic Printer Troubleshooting
                     
                      Job Responsibilities: 
                     
                     
                        
                        Install and configure user workstations
                        
                        Maintain, troubleshoot, and repair hardware and software on user workstations
                        
                        Support remote users through the use of remote desktop software
                        
                        Train users on new software and updates to current software
                        
                        Manage a constant flow of support tickets with a priority queue workflow
                        
                        Manage user accounts in multiple 3rd party systems
                        
                     
                     
                      Position Requirements: 
                     
                     
                        
                        This position requires occasional support at our satellite branches - reliable transportation
                           is required.
                        
                        
                        2-3 years’ experience in desktop troubleshooting and repair is preferred
                        
                        COMPTIA A+ and Network+ or equivalents are preferred
                        
                        Strong written and verbal communication skills are required – you must be able to
                           communicate clearly with users of varying degrees of technical experience.
                        
                        
                        Must be able to lift 40-50lbs. Position requires occasional transportation of computers
                           and peripherals including printers. Some branches do not have elevator access.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     If interested, please send your resume to Tim Ford, Director of IT, at tim.ford@communitymtg.com .
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     IT Internships, AutoZone, Memphis, TN
                     
                     Posted on 2016-10-27
                     
                     AutoZone is currently seeking IT interns for its Memphis headquarters. To apply, visit
                        http://www.autozoneinc.com/careers/ssc_jobs.html , click Search for Jobs, select "Admin" for Career Area and "Memphis, TN" for Location,
                        and apply for the "General Intern" position.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     IT Positions (Intern, Full-Time), Cummins
                     
                     Posted on 2016-10-27
                     
                     Cummins has a number of IT positions available. For details and to apply, visit their
                        website .
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Asst. Professor of Computer Science, University of Memphis
                     
                     Posted on 2016-10-26
                     
                     The Department is seeking candidates for an Assistant Professor position beginning
                        Fall 2017. Exceptionally qualified candidates in all areas of computer science are
                        invited while candidates with core expertise in systems, data science, security &
                        privacy, and software engineering and an interest in emerging and interdisciplinary
                        applications such as smart health, smart vehicles, smart transportation, smart energy,
                        and CS education are particularly encouraged to apply. The successful candidate is
                        expected to develop externally sponsored research programs, teach both undergraduate
                        and graduate courses and provide academic advising to students at all levels.
                     
                     
                     For details and to apply, see the posting here .
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     2017 HS-STEM Summer Internships, U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS)
                     
                     Posted on 2016-10-20
                     
                     The U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Science and Technology Directorate
                        Office of University Programs sponsors a 10-week summer internship program for students
                        majoring in homeland security related science, technology, engineering and mathematics
                        (HS-STEM) disciplines. The program provides students with quality research experiences
                        at federal research facilities located across the country and allows students the
                        opportunity to establish connections with DHS professionals. It is open to undergraduate
                        and graduate students in a broad spectrum of HS-STEM disciplines and DHS mission-relevant
                        Research Areas.
                     
                     
                     Undergraduate students receive a $6,000 stipend plus travel expenses. Graduate students
                        receive a $7,000 stipend plus travel expenses.
                     
                     
                     10-week research experiences are offered at a number of locations throughout the country.
                        Areas of research include: Engineering, computer science, mathematics, physics, chemistry,
                        biological / life sciences, environmental science, emergency and incident management,
                        social sciences, and more.
                     
                     
                     U.S. citizenship is required.
                     
                     Application deadline: December 7, 2016, 11:59PM EST
                     
                     How to Apply: Applications and supporting materials must be submitted at https://www.zintellect.com/Posting/Details/2595
                     
                     Program Information: Detailed information about the internships can be found at http://www.orau.gov/dhseducation/internships/
                     
                     For questions please email us at dhsed@orau.org .
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Programming Positions, Hardhat Inc.
                     
                     Posted on 2016-10-17
                     
                     Hardhat Inc. maintains a job cost accounting software system that has been around
                        for more than 30 years. We are looking for 2-3 programmers as new additions to our
                        team, and we would love to hire from the U of M!
                     
                     
                     We are looking to fill the following positions:
                     
                     
                        
                        Computer Programmer: Proficient in Web development, application coding, SQL. Looking
                           for a student who's already graduated, or will be graduating this December.
                        
                        
                        Computer Programmer Intern
                        
                     
                     
                     To apply please contact Alexandra Rushing , Operations Manager, at alex@hardhatinc.net with your resume.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Instructor of Computer Science, University of Memphis
                     
                     Posted on 2016-10-03
                     
                     The Department is seeking applicants for an Instructor of Computer Science position.
                        The instructor will teach undergraduate/graduate courses, participate in curriculum
                        development and improvement, and advise students.
                     
                     
                     For details and to apply, see the posting here .
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     IT System Administrator, RIB Software AG, Memphis, TN
                     
                     Posted on 2016-09-28
                     
                     RIB Software AG has an opening for an entry level, full time IT System Administrator.
                        For details and to apply, see their LinkedIn posting .
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Ecosystem Programming and Data Support, EPA, Gulf Breeze, FL
                     
                     Posted on 2016-09-28
                     
                     The EPA Environmental Research and Business Support Program has an opening for an
                        EPA Ecosystem Programming and Data Support position with the Office of Research and
                        Development at the EPA facility in Gulf Breeze, Florida. The Support will assist in
                        activities including data curation and extraction, quality control, model parameterization,
                        data analysis, application development and web content contributions. The job is expected
                        to begin November 2016.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Part-time (25 hours/week), $17.18/hour
                        
                        Must have two or more years of college in computer science/engineering, bioinformatics,
                           computational biology, information science, or a related field
                        
                        
                        Must have experience in computer programming languages, formatting data for a database,
                           summarizing literature references, and developing tables and graphics for scientific
                           reports
                        
                        
                        Will perform tasks such as conducting quality control of collected secondary data,
                           documenting data sources and collection methods (metadata), and developing research
                           products
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     For the full position description and to apply, visit our website: https://www.zintellect.com/Posting/Details/2605 . Questions can be sent to EPAjobs@orau.org .
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Bioinformatics Research Specialist, Methodist Le Bonheur Healthcare, Memphis, TN
                     
                     Posted on 2016-09-21
                     
                     Full-time position available. Master’s degree required in computer science, biomedical,
                        bioinformatics, or related field. Minimum 3 years of full-time experience in integrating
                        informatics technologies.
                     
                     
                     For details and to apply, see the posting here .
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Summer 2017 Honors Internship Program, FBI, Jacksonville, FL
                     
                     Posted on 2016-09-15
                     
                     The FBI Jacksonville Division is now accepting applications for the summer 2017 Honors
                        Internship Program, a 10-week, full-time, paid internship for college undergraduate
                        and graduate students. Through this highly competitive program, interns work side-by-side
                        with employees on a variety of projects including analyzing crime data and supporting
                        FBI operations across the country.
                     
                     
                     The application deadline for these internships is October 14, 2016 .  For details and to apply, please see this flyer .
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Software Developers, EPA, Athens, GA
                     
                     Posted on 2016-09-14
                     
                     The EPA Environmental Research and Business Support Program is searching for two EPA
                        Software Developers with the Office of Research and Development at the EPA facility
                        in Athens, GA. The Developers will assist with development, testing, deployment, and
                        documenting of desktop and web software. The job is expected to begin November 2016.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Full time, $20.04/hour
                        
                        Must have earned a bachelor’s degree in science, technology, mathematics, or related
                           field
                        
                        
                        Must have knowledge of relational databases and experience in web-based software development
                           in at least two of the following computer languages: Java, Python, C#, C++
                        
                        
                        Will perform tasks such as developing, testing, documenting, and deploying desktop
                           software, RESTful web services, web graphical user interfaces, and watershed modeling
                           workflows
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     For the full position description and to apply, visit our website: https://www.zintellect.com/Posting/Details/2558 . Questions can be sent to EPAjobs@orau.org .
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Web Dev Positions, Crye-Leike, Memphis, TN
                     
                     Posted on 2016-08-25
                     
                     Crye-Leike has openings for two web development positions in their Memphis, TN office:
                     
                     
                        
                        Back End Web Developer
                        
                        Front End Web Developer
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Various IT Positions, Methodist Le Bonheur Healthcare
                     
                     Posted on 2016-08-19
                     
                     Methodist Le Bonheur Healthcare has a number of full-time IT positions available,
                        including:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Sr. Clinical Analyst
                        
                        SAP Systems Analyst
                        
                        Project Manager/Information Svcs
                        
                        Information Security Risk Analyst I
                        
                        Information Security Analyst II
                        
                        Information Security Risk Analyst II
                        
                        Manager, Information Security Risk
                        
                        Manager, Information Security Operations
                        
                        EUC Support Specialist
                        
                        EUC Application Analyst Sr.
                        
                        Field Service Printer Technician
                        
                        Systems Analyst
                        
                        Manager, IT Clinical Informatics Adoption & Support
                        
                     
                     
                     Apply online at https://jobs.methodisthealth.org/go/Information-Technology-Careers/2454600/ .
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Adjunct Computer Science Faculty, LeMoyne-Owen College, Memphis, TN
                     
                     Posted on 2016-07-26
                     
                     LeMoyne-Owen College is seeking an adjunct computer science faculty member to teach the Introduction to
                        Microcomputer class. For details and to apply, see http://www.loc.edu/administration/human-resources/opportunities.asp#adj-cs .
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Web Development Intern, EPKpage, Memphis, TN
                     
                     Posted on 2016-07-12
                     
                     Memphis music technology startup EPKpage is looking for a full-stack and/or front-end web development intern to help maintain
                        existing code base. EPKpage is a web-app for musicians to look professional online
                        in order to book more gigs. We provide a clean, simple tool that allows artists to
                        create an electronic press kit (EPK) within 5 minutes or less, without any coding
                        or technical knowledge.
                     
                     
                     Required skills: MySql, PHP, Git, JS/jQuery, HTML/CSS
                     
                     
                     Preferred skills: Apache, Laravel PHP framework, Stripe integration experience, Amazon Web Services
                     
                     
                     Interested students should contact Luke Benson, Chief Operating Officer, at luke@epkpage.com .
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Programmer Analyst, Syntel Inc.
                     
                     Posted on 2016-06-22
                     
                     Syntel is a global IT consulting organization. The clients we support cover industries
                        including banking & financial services, insurance, manufacturing, healthcare, retail
                        and logistics. Our clients include such well known companies as American Express,
                        Wells Fargo, Allstate, FedEx and many others. We deliver projects of many sizes using
                        many different technologies. With our “Customer for Life” philosophy, we see that
                        approximately 90% of our business comes from our existing clients. Since we began
                        in Michigan in 1980, we’ve enjoyed continued growth and nearly reached $1B in revenue
                        last year. We aim to expand to $2.5-3B by 2020. To accomplish this, we need talented
                        professionals.
                     
                     
                     We understand that there will be a knowledge gap between what you learned at university
                        and what you need to know to be successful in your job. We provide our new graduates
                        with robust (and paid) technical and business training when you are first hired. The
                        training is focused to your role or the technology in which you will be working. Some
                        of our clients have projects that require knowledge of such as Java, Oracle, SAP,
                        BigData, ETL or Abinitio. Others may have need for those with mainframe or testing
                        knowledge. Either way, we will make sure that you are prepared to produce results
                        from day one!
                     
                     
                     Since our program is focused on building the future of Syntel, we want to give you
                        opportunities for maximum growth. We are looking for employees who want mobility in
                        their careers. You may be tapped on the shoulder to go work on a different project,
                        for a different client, in a different industry, in a different location.
                     
                     
                     Minimum Qualifications:
                     
                     
                        
                        Bachelor’s or Master’s Degree in Computer Science or related field.
                        
                        Excellent verbal communication and written, with active listening and summarization
                           skills.
                        
                        
                        Knowledge and experience in gathering data for requirements and use case development.
                        
                        Intermediate proficiency in Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook.
                        
                        Willingness to relocate - we have multiple locations throughout the U.S.
                        
                        Eligible to work in the United States without Visa sponsorship.
                        
                     
                     
                     If interested please contact recruiter Rohan Chile at Rohan_Chile@syntelinc.com with the following information:
                     
                     
                     Name, Current Location, Work Authorization (US Citizen / Green Card / OPT / CPT),
                        Cumulative GPA, Bachelors/Masters Completion Year, Major GPA, Date available to work,
                        Willing to Attend Training, Candidate Preferred Location, Alternate locations, Willing
                        to relocate, Role of interest (Programmer Analyst)
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Paid Internship Opportunities, Hilton
                     
                     Posted on 2016-06-20
                     
                     I am looking for a couple of candidates who can work about 20 hours a week – but I
                        am flexible on that. The position will pay hourly based on experience. The time would
                        be split between onsite and offsite.
                     
                     
                     Must have a great attitude, desire to learn new things, and an ‘anything is possible’
                        attitude.
                     
                     
                     Here are the skills I am looking for. Not necessary to have ALL of these skills –
                        if they are good in several they can learn all.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Programming Languages: Java, Javascript, Python, C, C++, Bash Script, Android / IOS,
                           R (data science)
                        
                        
                        Database Technology: MySQL, SQLite, MongoDB or CouchBase
                        
                        Web Development: Node.js, Meteor, D3.js, Apache, NGINX, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Semantic,
                           REST, Grunt
                        
                        
                        Other Technology: Vim, Netbeans, Eclipse, IntelliJ, Git, Mercurial, Gradle, Ant, OpenCV
                        
                        Software Dev Methods: Agile, Scrum
                        
                        Analytics Platforms: Hadoop, Spark, Storm, Cassandra, etc.
                        
                        Hardware: Raspberry Pi, Artik, Edison, or any ARM SOC device experience. This is an
                           IoT project so any experience with IoT platforms such as Jasper, IoTivity, Kaa, DeviceHive
                           is great but not required (they will learn it).
                        
                        
                        Voice Recognition – Amazon Alexa, Google API, etc.
                        
                     
                     
                     To apply, please submit a resume or CV to Keith Tomes at Keith.Tomes.contractor@Hilton.com .
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Entry-Level Front End Developer, Memphis, TN
                     
                     Posted on 2016-06-14
                     
                     One of the top health care companies in Memphis is looking for an entry-level front
                        end developer. This is an extremely innovative group, solving real life issues for
                        the hospital. They are looking for someone creative and a go-getter to join this collaborative
                        environment. This person would have the opportunity to step in and make an impact
                        right away.
                     
                     
                     Candidates should have a B.S. in Computer Science with relevant course work in development,
                        and entry level knowledge of HTML, CSS and JavaScript. This position is for an independent
                        contributor; there are no lead or supervisor responsibilities for this position.
                     
                     
                     If interested please contact Caroline Snapp with TEKsystems at (901) 415-1023 or csnapp@teksystems.com .
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Summer Intern, FedEx
                     
                     Posted on 2016-05-09
                     
                     What: This is a 90-day internship program with FedEx’s Global Planning, Engineering & Trade
                        Services Department. Interns will be part of a team with responsibility for designing,
                        developing, and/or implementing processes and tools for worldwide FedEx Express. These
                        high profile teams provide a broad range product offerings to global FedEx operations.
                     
                     
                     When: Full time 90 day internship that begins in May and ends August 2016
                     
                     
                     Who: Candidates for a Bachelor’s Degree (Junior or Senior) with majors in Engineering,
                        Accounting, Statistics, Finance, Management Information Systems, Computer Information
                        Systems, Project Management, International Business, Aviation Management, Logistics
                        or Supply Chain Management.  It is preferred the candidate be returning to complete
                        their degree or entering a Master’s program immediately following the internship.
                     
                     
                     Where: Interns are based out of the FedEx World Headquarters in Memphis, TN.
                     
                     
                     Requirements:
                     
                     
                        
                        Proof of eligibility to work in the U.S.
                        
                        Applicants are subject to a criminal background check and drug screen
                        
                        Overall GPA of 3.00 or above.
                        
                     
                     
                     To apply please send your resume to Yolanda Dillard, U of M Corporate Relations Manager,
                        at ydillard@memphis.edu .
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Support Engineer, CrossBrowserTesting.com, Germantown, TN
                     
                     Posted on 2016-05-06
                     
                     We at CrossBrowserTesting are looking to add an upper-level support engineer to our team. We take our customers'
                        problems very seriously, and providing quick, friendly help to our users is a top
                        priority throughout the company.
                     
                     
                     The work environment here is casual and fun. There are Nerf guns for impromptu battles,
                        free snacks and beverages for when you're feeling peckish, and the ever-popular Beer
                        Friday where we relax together and talk about how the week went. If you think you'd
                        fit in here, we'd love to hear from you!
                     
                     
                     Being a Support Engineer requires, above all, the ability to learn. Most of the questions
                        you'll answer will be from developers and QA engineers on a broad range of topics
                        that you probably won't know much about. That's okay! That's what research is for.
                        You should feel comfortable searching through source code, documentation, and posts
                        on StackOverflow or GitHub. You will often need to use what you learn in your research
                        to create example code for the user. That code should usually be written in the user's
                        programming language, so you will need to be comfortable writing small programs in
                        Java, C#, Python, Ruby, and Javascript. Don't let that intimidate you; there is plenty
                        of opportunity to learn on the job. As long as you are proficient with at least one
                        language, you'll do fine.
                     
                     
                     Clear and concise written and verbal communication is key to creating a good support
                        experience. In order to be successful, you must be able to work *with* a user to solve
                        their problem. Explain what the source of the problem was, what resources you used
                        to fix the problem, and why your solution works.
                     
                     
                     Also, we are a web-based company helping people make better websites, so knowledge
                        of HTML, CSS, Javascript/JQuery and other web technologies is a plus.
                     
                     
                     Full time or part time (25 hrs/week min). If you are interested, please send your
                        resume to info@crossbrowsertesting.com .
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     IT Analyst, Sedgwick
                     
                     Posted on 2016-05-05
                     
                     ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS and RESPONSIBILITIES
                     
                     
                        
                        Develops an understanding of IT processes and procedures, including the software development
                           life cycle.
                        
                        
                        Develops skills and knowledge in required development language to perform assigned
                           tasks.
                        
                        
                        Under close supervision, assists in the performance of the following duties:
                           
                           
                              
                              Data and system analysis, including loading and balancing creation of derived fields
                                 and formatting, process flows and data diagrams.
                              
                              
                              Requirement development process and unit testing of simple code units.
                              
                              Development and testing of software using Informatica, PL/SQL, Progress, Microsoft
                                 .NET or other programming languages as specified.
                              
                              
                              Investigation of issues and development of resolution in a timely manner with a technical
                                 leader.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Follows per-established departmental standards and guidelines as they pertain to design
                           and development; adheres to the goal of delivering and maintaining the highest quality
                           of customer service to our clients.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     For questions and to apply please contact Wade Hassell , IT Applications Manager, at (901) 415-6732 or wade.hassell@sedgwickcms.com .
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Various Startup Positions, Silicon Valley
                     
                     Posted on 2016-04-29
                     
                     500 Miles is a free mobile app that connects students and young professionals with
                        startups. A list of some recent opportunities in Silicon Valley and directions for
                        applying are available here . Questions about 500 Miles can be directed to Sam Reid at reisl-16@rhodes.edu .
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Software Engineer, Allenberg Cotton Co., Cordova, TN
                     
                     Posted on 2016-04-26
                     
                     Allenberg is seeking a Software Engineer with experience in Windows Forms development
                        and Web development. For details please see the requirements and cover letter guidelines .
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Software Engineer, Hewlett-Packard Enterprise, Conway, AR
                     
                     Posted on 2016-04-26
                     
                     Hewlett-Packard Enterprise has an opening for a Software Engineer on their Global
                        Delivery IT team. For details please see the requirements .
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Career Opportunities
                        
                           
                              
                              Internships
                              Past Interns
                              Job Listings
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              News & Events
                              Weekly colloquium talks and other events
                           
                           
                              Career Opportunities
                              Internship information and job postings for students
                           
                           
                              Degree Programs
                              Information on our degree and certificate programs
                           
                           
                              Courses
                              Recent syllabi for our courses
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 11/4/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/cs/career_opportunities/job_listings.php
