http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/cas/anth.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                              	Degree Planning
                              	
                        ANTH Courses
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     ANTHROPOLOGY (ANTH)
                     
                     In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics
                           courses: ANTH 6990-6999. Special Topics in Anthropology. (3). Addresses various areas of anthropology; topics are announced in the online course
                        listing. May be repeated with change of topic.
                     
                     
                     ANTH 7590-99. Special Topics in Medical Anthropology. (3).  Topics in Medical Anthropology. No more than six hours may be counted toward degree
                        requirements in Anthropology. PREREQUISITE: Non-majors must have permission of instructor.
                     
                     
                     ANTH 7690-99. Special Topics in Applied Anthropology. (3).  Topics vary and are announced in the online Course Listing. No more than six hours
                        may be counted toward degree requirements in Anthropology. PREREQUISITE: Non-majors
                        must have permission of instructor.
                     
                     
                     
ANTH 6111 - Evolution and Human Health (3) Implications of human evolutionary history for understanding human variation and contemporary health issues, including chronic and infectious disease; focus on importance of ecological and social context in shaping human development across the lifespan. PREREQUISITE: ANTH 1100, or permission of instructor. ANTH 6120 - Africa's New World Comm (3) Survey of African-American cultures in the New World emanating from 17th and 18th century slave trade; focus on African Diaspora; Caribbean, Central America, South America, and North America. ANTH 6220 - Cultural Perspec/Environment (3) Role of culture in the use and management of natural resources; discusses how societies construct knowledge about nature and attribute value to it; examines how indigenous knowledge, alternative value systems, and traditional management strategies influence policy decisions at the local, national, and international levels. ANTH 6270 - Ancient Human Soc/Envir Chng (3) (Same as ESCI 6270). Examination of past people and their environments from the Ice Age to recent times; archaeological and paleoecological data. Three lecture hours per week. ANTH 6302 - Native People of North America (3) Intensive ethnological study of various prehistoric cultures from earliest times until historic contact. ANTH 6325 - Archaeol Fld/Lab Techn (3) (Same as ESCI 6325). Instruction in field excavation, specimen preparation, use of survey instruments and photography, map making, archaeological record keeping; methods and techniques in archaeological laboratory analysis; emphasis on organization and supervision of laboratory procedures. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. ANTH 6350 - Archaeology of Collapse (3) (Same as ESCI 6350). Emphasis on archaeology of regional politics and archaic states throughout the world. Overview of social and political collapse of complex societies. ANTH 6411 - Urban Anthropology             (3) Anthropological studies of pre-industrial and industrial cities; urbanization, movements of social transformation and other processes of adjustment to an urban milieu; urban slums, ethnic enclaves, and housing developments in cross-cultural perspective; urban and social kinship and social organization; urban community development; urban research techniques. ANTH 6412 - Neighborhood Development (3) (Same as PADM 6412). Role of various institutions and their relationship to developmental needs of inner-city neighborhoods; evolution of American cities as context for understanding urban neighborhoods, poverty, and community problem-solving; particular attention given to role of government, corporations, and foundations in shaping policy at local level. ANTH 6413 - Anth of Tourism/Environment (3) Anthropological theories on conservation, indigenous rights, sustainability, and development as related to tourism development; assessment of ecotourism strategies, including community-managed conservation tourism, "voluntourism," paticipatory sustainable tourism, and the role of nongovernmental organizations in tourism management; special emphasis on indigenous rights. ANTH 6414 - Anthropology of Work (3) This course provides a survey of anthropological perspectives on work.  Topics include: cross-cultural perspectives on work, gender, and personhood; labor migration; formal and informal labor markets; globalization; workplaces as ethnographic field sites; organizational and occupational hierarchies; paid and unpaid labor; occupational health; and work, leisure, and everyday life. ANTH 6415 - Anthropology Human Rights (3) Anthropological approaches to critical human rights issues, debates, practices including gender, children, health, land, genocide, resettlement; broadly-defined human rights in specific national and cultural contexts; explores what anthropology, practitioners, and ethnographic methods offer our understanding of how human rights are interpreted and negotiated. ANTH 6416 - Culture/Identity/Power (3) Anthropological approaches to human identity in cross-cultural contexts. Examines how culture and power inform understandings and practices related to difference and stratification, and the forces of identity formation and reproduction cross-culturally with emphasis on ways that race, ethnicity, class, gender, sexuality, religion, nation, and community are constructed, negotiated, and resisted. ANTH 6417 - Hidden Worlds of Food (3) Anthropological study at the intersection of the global industrialized food system and emerging alternatives; construction and negotiation of value, taste, and meaning of food throughout the life cycle of the food system, from field to fork and table to trash; marginality, power, and social action in food systems. PREREQUISITE: ANTH 1200 or permission of instructor. ANTH 6431 - Shopping as a Social Science (3) Advanced study of shopping and consumption from an anthropological perspective; contemporary consumer culture in the U S and around the world; emphasis on how consumption shapes/reflects individual identities and cultural trends; consumer movements and anti-consumerism; sociocultural and environmental impacts of consumer behavior; the role of ethnography in the market. ANTH 6510 - Health/Culture/Environ Justice (3) Creation of health inequalities through socio-cultural forces that shape differential exposure to environmental hazards; basic concepts in cultural ecology and environmental health; anthropological approaches to understanding human biology; race and class as influences of disease risk in U. S. and global south; grassroots and community-based research efforts to combat environmental health inequalities. ANTH 6511 - Medical Anthropology           (3) Surveys the anthropology of health, illness, and curing systems, and how cultural, evolutionary, and environmental forces shape health and healing. Topics include ethnomedicine, nutrition, mental health, reproduction, addictions, health ecology, and evolutionary medicine. Examines how illness perceptions and health behaviors yield deeper insight into identity, values, agency, and health disparities. Considers roles for applied medical anthropology to improve care. ANTH 6521 - Culture, Soc & Mental Health (3) Examination of mental health and illness as a set of subjective experiences, social processes and objects of knowledge and intervention; cultural models of mental illness and healing; therapy as a cultural practice; substance abuse and addiction; mental health and relations of power; sociocultural dimensions of psycho-pharmacology. ANTH 6531 - Alcohol/Drugs/Culture          (3) Cross-cultural comparison of beliefs, meanings and behaviors regarding alcohol and other drug use; biological, social, economic, and political dimensions of alcohol and drugs; implications for prevention and treatment. ANTH 6541 - Nutritional Anth               (3) Cross-cultural comparison of human diet; assessment; cultural and health value of foods; hunger and malnutrition; acculturation and dietary change. ANTH 6551 - Culture/Sex/Childbirth         (3) Review of biological, environmental, social, and cultural factors influencing human reproduction; comparison of cultural and clinical perspectives on sexual orientation and behavior, sexually transmitted diseases, fertility, birth control, pregnancy, birth, and postpartum care; evaluation of alternative delivery systems in Western and non-Western societies. ANTH 6571 - Race and Health Disparities (3) History of scientific racism and race in the public and healthcare spheres; current understandings of human biological and genetic variation; role of cultural constructions of race in differential exposures to health hazards and access to health care; racial health disparities; strategies for addressing health inequalities. ANTH 6660 - Museum Collections             (3) (Same as ARTH 6660). Museum collection theory and methods, including collection policy, development, preservation, documentation, and interpretation. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ANTH 6661 - Collections Research           (3) (Same as ARTH 6661). Introduces students in object-based disciplines to museum collections research methods and their applications to exhibitions, catalogs, and scholarly publications. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ANTH 6662 - Museum Exhibitions             (3) (Same as ARTH 6662). Museum exhibition methods and theory, including research, design, layout, object selection and handling, installation, public programing, and evaluation. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ANTH 6680 - Applied Archaeology/Museums (3) (Same as ESCI 6680). Representations of cultural heritage in a broad array of public venues; repatriation, cultural patrimony, cultural resource management, civic engagement, rights and responsibilities of stakeholders, public involvement in museum representations, performance and education, culture and memory. ANTH 6990 - Toys to Cartoons: Material Cul (3) Explore the relationship between gender and the environment through interdisciplinary approaches within the social sciences. ANTH 6992 - Design Anthropology (3) Relationship between racism and racial health disparities; through readings, films, and class discussion, the history of the race concept and development of scientific racism will be traced. ANTH 7075 - Methods In Anthropology        (4) Critical examination of field methods and research designs in selected areas of anthropology; major trends in contemporary anthropological research as a preparation for applied research. PREREQUISITE: Non-majors must have permission of instructor. ANTH 7076 - Anth Data Analysis             (4) Construction and analysis of data bases developed from ongoing anthropological projects; review of frequently used statistical techniques in anthropological literature, hypothesis testing, and methods of presentation. PREREQUISITE: ANTH 7075 or permission of instructor. ANTH 7200 - Roots of Anth Theory (3) Growth of anthropology as a discipline and development of major theoretical paradigms; historical roots of contemporary anthropological theory; implications of theory for application and practice; designed and required for graduate anthropology students, but open to graduate students in other disciplines. ANTH 7250 - Comm Culture Evaluation        (3) Cultural perspectives on program evaluation in community settings; theoretical and methodological approaches to evaluation of human service programs; culturally competent evaluations using ethnographic methods; role of anthropology in program evaluation at national and international levels. PREREQUISITE: Non-majors must have permission of instructor. ANTH 7255 - Applied Anth & Develop         (3) Surveys the role of anthropology and culture in globalization and development contexts and forms of anthropological application. Topics include: history and specializations in applied anthropology; anthropology of development; gender and development; methods and ethics in applied anthropology; distinctions between applied, engaged, practicing, public, action and activist anthropology. ANTH 7411 - Urban Anth In Mid-South        (3) Discussion and analysis of community economic development in the Mid-South region from prehistoric to present time; inter-relationship of cultural values, regional social structures and political economy in terms of international and national industrial trends. ANTH 7511 - Medical Anth Theory & Practice (3) Concepts and techniques to develop and improve prevention initiatives and health services and access to care, such as medical narrative, needs assessment, health program evaluation, health marketing, and cultural competency.  Emphasis is placed on engagement and collaboration, and on applied medical anthropology's influence on policies, programs, and services that advance community wellbeing and reverse health disparities.  PREREQUISITE: Non-majors must have permission of instructor. ANTH 7521 - Biocultural Epidemiolgy        (3) Concepts and research uniting epidemiology and medical anthropology; explores epidemiologic web of agent, host, and environment in disease; stresses interplay of sociocultural, behavioral, and environmental risk factors; examines applications of epidemiology theory and methods to medical anthropology and global health policy. ANTH 7661 - Museum Practices               (3) (Same as ARTH 7661). Museum administration, finance, collection management, conservation, education, exhibition design, marketing, and visitor services. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ANTH 7662 - Museums & Communities          (3) (Same as ARTH 7662). History and theory of museums, governance, audiences, and current topics in the profession. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ANTH 7669 - Museum Internship              (3-6) (Same as ARTH 7669). Structured experience in selected aspects of museum practice. Includes 150 contract hours in museum and colloquium. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: ANTH 7661, 7662 and/or permission of instructor. Grades of A-F or IP will be given. ANTH 7970 - Directed Indiv Writing         (1-3) Intensive guided study of original data in areas selected by advanced students and accepted by the instructor; preparation of manuscripts for publication. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or I will be given. ANTH 7975 - Directed Indiv Reading         (1-3) Intensive guided study in areas selected by advanced students and accepted by the staff. PREREQUISITE: Permission of staff. Grades of A-F, or I will be given. ANTH 7980 - Directed Indiv Research        (1-3) Intensive guided study of original data in areas selected by advanced students and accepted by the staff; preparation for publication. PREREQUISITE: Permission of chair and the designated staff. Grades of A-F, or I will be given. ANTH 7984 - Practicum Proseminar (1) Training modules to plan, execute, document, and evaluate effective practicum assignments. Emphasis is placed on collaboration, engagement, and capacity building to benefit community partners, and on designing and conducting projects which strengthen skills, experience, and professionalism in applied anthropology. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. ANTH 7985 - Practicum (3-6) Supervised practical experience in the application of anthropological principles in an agency or facility appropriate to applied anthropology. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. ANTH 8075 - Methods In Anthropology        (4) Critical examination of field methods and research designs in selected areas of anthropology; major trends in contemporary anthropological research as a preparation for applied research. PREREQUISITE: Non-majors must have permission of instructor. ANTH 8076 - Anth Data Analysis             (4) Construction and analysis of data bases developed from ongoing anthropological projects; review of frequently used statistical techniques in anthropological literature, hypothesis testing, and methods of presentation. PREREQUISITE: ANTH 7075 or permission of instructor. ANTH 8200 - Roots of Anth Theory (3) Growth of anthropology as a discipline and development of major theoretical paradigms; historical roots of contemporary anthropological theory; implications of theory for application and practice; designed and required for graduate anthropology students, but open to graduate students in other disciplines. ANTH 8250 - Comm Culture Evaluation (3) Cultural perspectives on program evaluation in community settings; theoretical and methodological approaches to evaluation of human service programs; culturally competent evaluations using ethnographic methods; role of anthropology in program evaluation at national and international levels. PREREQUISITE: Non-majors must have permission of instructor. ANTH 8521 - Biocultural Epidemiolgy        (3) Concepts and research uniting epidemiology and medical anthropology; explores epidemiologic web of agent, host, and environment in disease; stresses interplay of sociocultural, behavioral, and environmental risk factors; examines applications of epidemiology theory and methods to medical anthropology and global health policy. ANTH 8975 - Directed Indiv Reading         (1-3) Intensive guided study in areas selected by advanced students and accepted by the staff. PREREQUISITE: Permission of staff. Grades of A-F, or I will be given. ANTH 8980 - Directed Indiv Research        (1-3) Intensive guided study of original data in areas selected by advanced students and accepted by the staff; preparation for publication. PREREQUISITE: Permission of chair and the designated staff. Grades of A-F, or I will be given.
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/cas/anth.php
