http://www.memphis.edu/csd/programs/profapply.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			School of Communication Sciences and Disorders
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Programs
                        People
                        Research
                        Student Organizations
                        Resources
                        News
                     
                     
                        
                           Programs
                           
                              
                                 
                                 MA in SLP
                                       
                                       Admissions
                                       
                                       Curriculum
                                       
                                       Non-CSD Coursework
                                       
                                       Clinical Education
                                       
                                       Additional Information
                                       
                                       Apply Now
                                    
                                 
                                 AuD in Audiology
                                       
                                       Admissions
                                       
                                       Curriculum
                                       
                                       Non-CSD Coursework
                                       
                                       Clinical Education
                                       
                                       Additional Information
                                       
                                       Apply Now
                                    
                                 
                                 PhD in CSD
                                       Admissions
                                       Apply Now
                                          
                                           
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                                 Continuing Education
                                       AAC Workshop
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	School of Communication Sciences and Disorders
                              	
                        
                              	Programs
                              	
                        Apply Now 
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Apply Now
                     
                     APPLICATION PROCESS
                     
                     Doctor of Audiology (Au.D.) Master of Arts (M.A.) in Speech-Language Pathology
                     
                     
                     The professional degree programs (AuD and MA) in the School of Communication Sciences
                        and Disorders use a centralized application known as the Communication Sciences &
                        Disorders Centralized Application Service (CSDCAS). Students applying for the Fall
                        2017 entering class should apply online using the CSDCAS application. CSDCAS is a
                        common application that is specific to Communication Sciences and Disorders. Later
                        in the admissions process, you will be required to complete an additional online application
                        directly to The University of Memphis. More information about the U of M application
                        will be available during the Fall Semester.
                     
                     
                     Applications for the professional degree programs (AuD and MA) must be completed and
                        verified by CSDCAS by February 1, 2017. A verified application means that it has been
                        e-submitted, payment has been received, and ALL documentation (official transcripts,
                        official GRE scores, letters of recommendation, and your personal statement) has been
                        received. We recommend that you e-submit your application at least four weeks in advance
                        of the February 1st deadline to ensure the application is verified on time.
                     
                     
                     Please note that official GRE scores must be sent directly to CSDCAS from ETS using
                        Code 1756.
                     
                     
                     International students are encouraged to go the International Student webpage at The University of Memphis  for additional information about applying. International
                        students are required to take the GRE and the TOEFL and submit official scores for
                        both. All international students must have an external organization evaluate their
                        transcripts (e.g., WES – World Education Services) at the time they apply.
                     
                     
                     It is the student's responsibility to monitor the status of the CSDCAS application
                              and ensure that all materials are received and verified by the deadline. An incomplete
                              application cannot be reviewed by the Admissions Committee.
                     
                     CSDCAS APPLICATION
                     
                     CSDCAS APPLICATION INSTRUCTIONS
                     
                     Please read through all instructions below before beginning your CSDCAS application.
                           You are also encouraged to refer to the CSDCAS FAQs by clicking here .
                     
                     
                        
                        Complete the CSDCAS Application . The CSDCAS portal opens on August 2, 2016; you can access the CSDCAS portal here .
                        
                        
                        Transcripts : Submit OFFICIAL transcripts from ALL universities you have attended to the CSDCAS portal. You will be prompted to download
                           a form that requests official transcripts from each college or university you have
                           attended. You will also be prompted to enter individual classes you have taken on
                           the CSDCAS portal. Both steps need to be completed.
                        
                        
                        GRE Scores : Submit OFFICIAL GRE scores to the CSDCAS portal using the CSDCAS program code 1756.
                        
                        
                        Letters of Recommendation:
                        
                        
                           
                           Submit 3 letters of recommendation from faculty or other individuals who can attest
                              to your ability to be successful as a graduate student. You will be prompted by the
                              CSDCAS portal to enter the names of individuals who will write your recommendation
                              letters. This will generate an email to those individuals who will upload their letters
                              directly to CSDCAS.
                           
                           
                           The letters of recommendation should be completed using the CSDCAS reference request
                              form including the ratings grid and an uploaded written letter. These comments are
                              a critical part of the review process because we are very interested in your letter
                              writers’ opinions about your potential for graduate study and clinical work.
                           
                           
                           You will list your references as “Evaluations” in the “Supporting Information” section
                              of CSDCAS.
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Personal Statement:
                        
                        
                           
                           This statement gives you an opportunity to share your personal goals and information
                              about yourself and why you are interested in our program.
                           
                           
                           The personal statement is uploaded under “Documents.”
                           
                        
                        
                        Begin uploading documentation to your CSDCAS application early!
                        
                        
                           
                           All of your documentation must be complete and verified no later than February 1,
                              2017. A verified application means that it has been e-submitted, payment has been
                              received, and ALL documentation (official transcripts, official GRE scores, letters of recommendation,
                              and your personal statement) has been received.
                           
                           
                           Although our deadline of receipt and verification of your application is Feb 1, 2017,
                              we recommend that you e-submit your application at least four weeks in advance of
                              the February 1st deadline to allow time for verification.
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Regularly check your CSDCAS portal to monitor your application and the receipt of
                           ALL supporting documents.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     It is the student’s responsibility to monitor the status of the CSDCAS application
                              and ensure that all materials are received and verified by the deadline. An incomplete
                              application cannot be reviewed by the Admissions Committee.
                     
                     CHECKLIST FOR YOUR CSDCAS APPLICATION:
                     
                     
                        
                        Review all of the instructions on the CSDCAS site .
                        
                        
                        Begin requesting transcripts, GRE scores, and letters of recommendation be submitted
                           directly to CSDCAS no later than October1.
                        
                        
                        The University of Memphis CSDCAS program code is 1756.
                        
                        Upload your personal statement.
                        
                        Submit your completed CSDCAS application one month before February 1, 2017, so that
                           CSDCAS has time to verify your documents.
                        
                        
                        Regularly check your CSDCAS portal to monitor your application and the receipt of
                           all supporting documents.
                        
                        
                        IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITY TO MONITOR THE PORTAL AND INSURE THAT NO DOCUMENTS ARE MISSING.
                        
                     
                     
                     CSDCAS Customer Service CSDCAS Customer Service is available Monday thru Friday from 9:00AM to 5:00PM EST Phone (617) 612-2030 E-Mail csdcasinfo@csdcas.org
                     
                     CSDCAS Address All official transcripts MUST be sent to CSDCAS at the address below: CSDCAS Verification Department P.O. Box 9113 Watertown, MA 02471
                     
                     
                     UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS APPLICATION
                     
                     In addition to the CSDCAS application, you will be required to complete an additional
                        online application directly to The University of Memphis. More information about the
                        UofM application will be available during the Fall Semester.
                     
                     
                     FOR GENERAL QUESTIONS REGARDING OUR ACADEMIC PROGRAMS CONTACT US AT:
                     
                     admissionscsd@memphis.edu
                     
                     FOR SPECIFIC QUESTIONS REGARDING OUR ACADEMIC PROGRAMS PLEASE CONTACT:
                     
                     Master of Arts (M.A.) in Speech-Language Pathology Degree Program Eugene Buder, Ph.D.
                     
                     
                     (e-mail: ehbuder@memphis.edu , telephone: 901.678.5800)
                     
                     
                     Doctor of Audiology (Au.D.) Degree Program Lisa Lucks Mendel, Ph.D., Coordinator of Admissions
                     
                     
                     (e-mail: lmendel@memphis.edu , telephone: 901.678.5800)
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Programs
                        
                           
                              
                              MA in SLP
                                    
                                    Admissions
                                    
                                    Curriculum
                                    
                                    Non-CSD Coursework
                                    
                                    Clinical Education
                                    
                                    Additional Information
                                    
                                    Apply Now
                                 
                              
                              AuD in Audiology
                                    
                                    Admissions
                                    
                                    Curriculum
                                    
                                    Non-CSD Coursework
                                    
                                    Clinical Education
                                    
                                    Additional Information
                                    
                                    Apply Now
                                 
                              
                              PhD in CSD
                                    Admissions
                                    Apply Now
                                       
                                        
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                              Continuing Education
                                    AAC Workshop
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply Now
                              Want to pursue a degree in Communication Sciences and Disorders?  Find out how to
                                 apply.
                              
                           
                           
                              Support the School
                              Help support the School with the funding of various initiatives.
                           
                           
                              Memphis Speech and Hearing Center
                              Learn about our in-house clinical training facility.
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/3/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/csd/programs/profapply.php
