http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/scsd.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                              	Degree Planning
                              	
                        SCSD Courses
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     COMMUNICATION SCIENCES AND DISORDERS (AUSP)
                     
                     
AUSP 6001 - Accent Modification (1) This course is an individually directed study of standard pronunciation, stress patterns, and intonation of American English for speakers of English as a foreign language. It is focused toward students who desire to improve their speech intelligibility in American English. Permission of instructor required. (S/U). AUSP 7000 - Speech Science (3) Contemporary survey of phonetic sciences; detailed discussion of neurological, physiological, acoustic, and perceptual processes involved in the production, transmission, and intelligibility of the speech signal. AUSP 7001 - Hearing Science (3) Basic acoustics, psychoacoustical methods, and psychoacoustical findings presented with emphasis on matters of greatest importance for foundations of audiological practice. AUSP 7002 - Sem Comm Sciences (1-3) Advanced study of selected aspects of basic sciences related to hearing, speech, or language; with different content, may be repeated for up to 6 hours credit at 7000 level or up to 12 hours at 8000 level. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. AUSP 7003 - Anat Phys Spch Mech (3) Structure and function of bodily organs related to the processes of speech production. AUSP 7004 - Anat Phys Hear Mec (3) Structure and function of outer, middle, inner ear, and auditory neural pathways; formation of auditory system in context of general prenatal development. AUSP 7006 - Lang & Speech Devel (3) Normal acquisition and maintenance of speech and language, theoretical formulations about language and speech behavior, and approaches to its study. Students observe and describe the language of children of various ages whose development is within normal range. AUSP 7007 - Commun Interaction (3) Concepts and processes fundamental to communicative interaction; emphasis on application of such concepts and processes to the student's own communicative interactions. AUSP 7008 - Acoustic/Percept Phonetics (3) Survey of experimental phonetics: acoustic phonetic theory; speech perception theory and research; techniques of acoustic analysis and synthesis. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. AUSP 7010 - Neurol Bases Comm (3) Review of the neuroanatomy of the central and peripheral nervous systems and the physiology of nerves and muscles; attention on cortical and subcortical structures and on neuropsychological processes that are attributed to speech and/or language functions. This course builds on fundamental concepts in language, speech and hearing. AUSP 7011 - Psycholinguistics (3) Historical and recent trends in linguistics; relationship between brain, language, and cognition; knowledge and processes involved in speaking and listening; topics include nature of mental representations and organization of knowledge; speech perception; lexical, sentence, and discourse processing; speech and language production. AUSP 7015 - Prof Writing/Comm Dsord (1) Overview of grammatical concepts, including syntactic form and function, and proofreading skills; specific application to audiology and speech-language pathology coursework, as well as academic, scientific, and clinical writing. AUSP 7016 - Sociocultrl Base Comm (3) Influences of socio-cultural factors such as age, religion, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, and geographic region, on communication; emphasis on cross-cultural communication in educational and health-care settings. AUSP 7101 - Audiol Concepts (4) Basic audiological concepts and their applicability to clinical procedures; topics include pure-tone air and bone conduction procedures, clinical masking, speech threshold and recognition testing, acoustic immittance, and acoustic reflex testing; weekly laboratory exercises included. AUSP 7104 - Clincl Exper Audiology (1-6) Supervised clinical experience in the evaluation and/or management of clients with hearing impairments; designed to meet student's individual needs. May be repeated as often as desired. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. AUSP 7106 - Intro Surv Of Audiology (3) Introduction to anatomy and physiology of the ear; the etiology, pathology, and treatment of hearing loss; and the educational implications of hearing loss; also introduces hearing assessment techniques, including audiogram interpretation. AUSP 7107 - Cochlear Implants (3) Cochlear implant technology, signal processing, candidacy, surgery, speech perception performance, and follow-up for adults and children; implantable hearing devices, such as middle ear implants and bone-anchored hearing aids. AUSP 7113 - Rehabilitatv Audiol I (3) Roles of auditory, visual, and bisensory cues in communication: effects of hearing impairment on speech and language development; psychology of deafness and deaf culture; prosthetic devices. PREREQUISITE: AUSP 8101 or AUSP 7106 or permission of instructor. AUSP 7117 - Individual Study/Audiol (3) Directed topics include physics of sound, hearing loss, basic audiometric testing and hearing conservation. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. AUSP 7122 - Aural Rehabilitation (3) Introduction to rehabilitative procedures for hearing-impaired children and adults; topics include minimal hearing loss, auditory perception of speech, amplification, speech and language behaviors, psychosocial problems, educational deficits and management; (re)habilitation programs for children and adults, and cochlear implants. Primarily for non-audiology majors. PREREQUISITE: AUSP 7101 or permission of instructor. AUSP 7123 - Manual English (1) Acquisition of basic vocabulary and understanding of rules of Signed English; sign continuum; situational usage of both American Sign Language and Signing Exact English. AUSP 7124 - Clinical Educ Comm Disorders (1-3) Processes involved in the clinical education of student clinicians in the areas of audiology and speech-language pathology.  Experiences in supervision of student clinicians provided.  PREREQUISITE:  Permission of instructor.  Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. AUSP 7127 - Rehabilitatv Audiol II (3) Study of qualitative and quantitative methods to assess communicative function in adult individuals with hearing impairment; use of assessment tools for identifying intervention goals and for measuring outcomes; review and evaluation of current rehabilitative programs and strategies. PREREQUISITES: AUSP 7/8101 and AUSP 7/8104 (3 hours), or permission of instructor. AUSP 7129 - Psychosoc Adj Hrng Impr (3) Seminar on facilitation of psychosocial and behavioral adjustment to hearing impairment and impact of cognitive status, general health and stigma on functional communication and social interaction of aging adults and their families; emphasis on exploration of appropriate counseling skills and strategies in both individual and group settings. PREREQUISITE: 7/8007 or permission of instructor. AUSP 7200 - Intro Clin Pract (2) Introduction to clinical practicum in speech and language disorders. For students without prior practical graduate experience in communication disorders. Normally taken concurrently with AUSP 7501. AUSP 7201 - Clft Palate/Craniofcl Dis (3) Cleft palate speech with emphasis on articulatory, resonance, and phonatory aspects as well as medical and habilitative and rehabilitative principles. PREREQUISITE: AUSP 7003 and 7200 or permission of instructor. AUSP 7202 - Motor Speech Dis/Child (3) Speech deficits attributable to developmental neuromuscular disorder; etiologies and classifications of cerebral palsy, hormonal disturbances, myopathologies, and various genetic disorders; review of contemporary approaches to diagnosis and management of developmental dysarthria and apraxia; special problems associated with treating profoundly- and multiply-handicapped child. PREREQUISITE: AUSP 7/8003 and 7/8010 or permission of instructor. AUSP 7203 - Voice Disorders (3) In depth review of voice disorders by patterns of deviation, etiology, and techniques of intervention. Opportunity for original papers and/or projects. PREREQUISITE: AUSP 7/8003 or permission of instructor. AUSP 7204 - Disorders Phonology/Articulatn (3) Current research in disorders of phonology and articulation, including assessment, production, and remediation procedures. AUSP 7205 - Fluency Disorders (3) A discussion of the nature, assessment, and treatment of fluency problems including developmental stuttering, cluttering, and acquired fluency disorders.  Clinical rationales and protocols for children, adolescents, and adults are presented along with a review of the critical variables that contribute to a successful therapeutic outcome. AUSP 7206 - Neuromotor Speech Disor (3) Review of neuromotor systems subserving speech production and nature of neuromotor systems pathologies; diagnostic definitions and taxonomies associated with dysarthria and apraxia of speech, as well as applications of instrumental methods to clinical description of motor speech disorders; differential diagnosis, assessment, and interdisciplinary management of adults with acquired neuromotor disturbances affecting speech. PREREQUISITE: AUSP 7/8003 and 7/8010 or permission of instructor. AUSP 7207 - Clinical Instrumentation (3) Principles and procedures for measurement of speech and voice function and dysfunction; standardization, validity, and reliability of instrumental procedures; hands-on experience with acquisition and interpretation of acoustic and physiologic data for speech pathologies. AUSP 7208 - Clin Exp Spch Lang Path (3) Supervised clinical practice with clients. Designed to meet student's individual needs. May be repeated as often as desired. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. AUSP 7209 - Dysphagia/Related Disor (3) Anatomy and physiology of normal deglutition; nature and characteristics of swallowing disorders; methods of evaluation and management of dysphagia in adults and children; and consideration of medical conditions such as aspiration pneumonia, tracheostomy, and other complicating factors associated with dysphagia. PREREQUISITE: AUSP 7/8003 and 7/8010 or permission of instructor. AUSP 7210 - Sem Speech Pathology (1-3) Selected areas of speech or language disorders. With different content, may be repeated for up to 6 hours at the 7000 level or for up to 12 hours at the 8000 level. AUSP 7211 - Clinical Exp School Pers (1-2) Supervised clinical experience designed to meet the needs of practicing public school personnel. PREREQUISITES: Permission of the Coordinator of Graduate Studies and completion of one semester of AUSP 7208. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. AUSP 7212 - Autism Spect Disord/Rel Disabl (3) Review of characteristics and etiology of autism spectrum disorders, including strategies for language and communication evaluation, assessment, and intervention with children, adolescents and adults with autism spectrum disorders and related severe communicative disabilities. AUSP 7213 - Comm Dis in Diverse Cultures (1) Study Abroad. For graduate students in communication sciences and disorders for one week with additional preparation prior to and following the study abroad experience. Students will experiences the challenges of providing professional services with limited resources in under-served communities and gain awareness of the health care availability in diverse cultures. PREREQUISITE: permission of the instruction.
May be repeated for up to 3 credit-hours.
AUSP 7300 - Lang Dis In Children (3) Perceptual, social, and cognitive correlates of language disorders associated with specific language impairment, phonological disorders, mental retardation, autism, and hearing impairment; assessment, diagnosis, and treatment of language disorders in young children (0-6 years). AUSP 7302 - Lang Disordrs/Adults I (3) Communicative and cognitive deficits associated with focal neurological disease; differential diagnosis, assessment, and management of adults with aphasia and right hemisphere communication disorders. PREREQUISITE: AUSP 7/8003 and 7/8010 or permission of instructor. AUSP 7303 - Lang Disordrs/Adults II (3) Communicative and cognitive deficits associated with nonfocal neurological disease; differential diagnosis, assessment, and management of individuals with traumatic brain injury, dementia, and other disorders. PREREQUISITE: AUSP 7/8003 and 7/8010 or permission of instructor. AUSP 7304 - Sem Lang Disorders (1-3) Detailed study of selected topics in language disorders in children and adults. With different content, may be repeated for up to 6 hours at the 7000 level or 12 hours at the 8000 level. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. AUSP 7305 - Language Learning Disabilities (3) Assessment and treatment of spoken and written language disorders in school-age children and adolescents with special emphasis on the collaborative role of the speech-language pathologist in school-based settings; attentional and social deficits associated with language-learning disabilities. AUSP 7308 - Augmentative/Alternatv Comm (3) Comprehensive overview of theoretical and practical issues related to use of augmentative and alternative communication (AAC) systems; assessment and intervention strategies for children and adults in need of AAC. AUSP 7309 - Sp Rehab/Head-Neck Path (3) Etiology, disordered anatomy, and physiology resulting from cancer of head and neck; ways in which cancer, surgery, and other medical treatments affect speech and voice functioning and swallowing; diagnostic and treatment approaches. AUSP 7500 - Eval Resrch Comm Disord (3) A discussion of concepts and skills that prepare students to be intelligent consumers of research.  Topics include the interpretation of basic statistical concepts, forms of empirical research, threats to internal and external validity, research designs, and issues related to evidence based practice, the publishing process, the protection of research participants, and writing with precision. AUSP 7501 - Phonetic Transcript (1) Broad and narrow transcription techniques and opportunities for transcription practice with normal and disordered populations. AUSP 7502 - Intro to Phonetic Transcriptio (1) Fundamentals of broad phonetic transcription including opportunities for transcription practice with standard American English materials. AUSP 7700 - Individ Readings Audiol (1-3) Directed independent study of literature in an area of audiology. May be repeated as often as desired. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. AUSP 7800 - Ind Read Speech-Language Path (1-3) Directed independent study in the areas of speech or language pathology. May be repeated as often as desired. Grades A-F, or IP will be given. AUSP 7990 - Special Projects (1-3) Students study a specific area under faculty guidance. May be taken twice. PREREQUISITE: Permission of individual faculty members to be involved. AUSP 7991 - Clinical-Research Colloquium (1) Faculty and guest presentations and discussions of recent, clinically relevant research and related topics in Communication Sciences and Disorders. Topics include (but are not limited to) evidence based practices in evaluation and treatment of communication disorders. May be repeated for up to 3 credits. AUSP 7996 - Thesis (1-3) Academic credit for thesis may be taken for a maximum of 6 hours and a minimum of 3 hours degree credit. Only 3 credits may be applied toward degree requirements for the master's degree. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. AUSP 8000 - Speech Science (3) Contemporary survey of phonetic sciences; detailed discussion of neurological, physiological, acoustic, and perceptual processes involved in the production, transmission, and intelligibility of the speech signal. AUSP 8001 - Hearing Science (3) Basic acoustics, psychoacoustical methods, and psychoacoustical findings presented with emphasis on matters of greatest importance for foundations of audiological practice. AUSP 8002 - Sem Comm Sciences (1-3) Advanced study of selected aspects of basic sciences related to hearing, speech, or language; with different content, may be repeated for up to 6 hours credit at 7000 level or up to 12 hours at 8000 level. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. AUSP 8003 - Anat Phys Speech Mech (3) Structure and function of bodily organs related to the processes of speech production. AUSP 8004 - Anat Phys Hear Mec (3) Structure and function of outer, middle, inner ear, and auditory neural pathways; formation of auditory system in context of general prenatal development. AUSP 8006 - Lang & Speech Devel (3) Normal acquisition and maintenance of speech and language, theoretical formulations about language and speech behavior, and approaches to its study. Students observe and describe the language of children of various ages whose development is within normal range. AUSP 8007 - Commun Interaction (3) Concepts and processes fundamental to communicative interaction; emphasis on application of such concepts and processes to the student's own communicative interactions. AUSP 8008 - Acoustic/Percept Phonetics (3) Survey of experimental phonetics: acoustic phonetic theory; speech perception theory and research; techniques of acoustic analysis and synthesis. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. AUSP 8010 - Neurol Bases Comm (3) Review of the neuroanatomy of the central and peripheral nervous systems and the physiology of nerves and muscles; attention on cortical and subcortical structures and on neuropsychological processes that are attributed to speech and/or language functions. AUSP 8011 - Psycholinguistics (3) Historical and recent trends in linguistics; relationship between brain, language, and cognition; knowledge and processes involved in speaking and listening; topics include nature of mental representations and organization of knowledge; speech perception; lexical, sentence, and discourse processing; speech and language production. AUSP 8012 - Measurement Techniques (3) Principles and techniques involved in evaluation of equipment and environments used in practice of Audiology; major focus on the topics of calibration, of audiological instrumentation.  Laboratory experience is provided.  PREREQUISITE:  AUSP 8001 or permission of instructor. AUSP 8016 - Sociocultrl Base Comm (3) Influences of socio-cultural factors such as age, religion, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, and geographic region, on communication; emphasis on cross-cultural communication in educational and health-care settings. AUSP 8017 - Digitl Signl Proc Sp/Hear (3) Survey of modern methods for processing of physiological and acoustic signals: interfacing components; analog-digital and digital-analog conversion; mathematical basics for signal processing applications; programming concepts. AUSP 8019 - Anat/Phys Aud Sys I (3) Basic anatomy and physiology of the outer ear, middle ear, and inner ear; embryologic origins and development of structures related to body systems. AUSP 8020 - Anat/Phys Aud Sys II (3) The nervous system, visual and proprioceptive systems as they relate to hearing and balance.  PREREQUISITE:  AUSP 8019 or permission of instructor. AUSP 8021 - Prof Prep/Scientists (1) Preparation of early PhD students for the role of scientist in the academic and clinical community; rotating themes include ethics, the publication and review process, teaching strategies and techniques, mentoring, grant preparation, and presentation of research. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. AUSP 8100 - Ind Read Audiology (1-6) Directed independent study of literature in an area of audiology. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. AUSP 8101 - Audiol Concepts (3) Basic audiological concepts and their applicability to clinical procedures; topics include pure-tone air and bone conduction procedures, clinical masking, speech threshold and recognition testing, acoustic immittance, and acoustic reflex testing; weekly laboratory exercises included. AUSP 8103 - Diag/Medical Audiology (3) Differential diagnosis of hearing loss including behavioral and acoustic (otoacoustic emissions) tests and introduction to electrophysiologic tests; clinical decision analysis; medical audiology; cerumen management. PREREQUISITE: AUSP 8019, 7/8101, or permission of instructor. COREQUISITE: AUSP 7/8104. AUSP 8104 - Clinicl Exper Audiology (1-6) Supervised clinical experience in the evaluation and/or management of clients with hearing impairments; designed to meet student's individual needs. May be repeated as often as desired. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. AUSP 8105 - Vestibular Assmt/Rehab (3) Evaluation of balance function using a test battery approach according to cross-check principles; interpretation of test results and rehabilitation of balance disorders. PREREQUISITE: AUSP 7/8103, or permission of instructor. AUSP 8107 - Cochlear Implants (3) Cochlear implant technology, signal processing, candidacy, surgery, speech perception performance, and follow-up for adults and children; implantable hearing devices, such as middle ear implants and bone-anchored hearing aids. AUSP 8110 - Studebaker Lectures (1-3) Lecture series covering broad range of topics presented by nationally and internationally recognized scholars in the areas of audiology, hearing science, and medicine. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given.
AUSP 8112 - Sem Audiology (3) Detailed study of selected topics in audiology. With different content, may be repeated for up to 6 hours at the 7000 level or 12 hours at the 8000 level. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. AUSP 8113 - Intro to Audiologic Rehab (3) Roles of auditory, visual, and bisensory cues in communication:  effects of hearing impairment on speech and language development; communication strategies; psychology of deafness and deal culture; prosthetic devices.  PREREQUISITE:  AUSP 8101 or AUSP 7106 or permission of instructor. AUSP 8114 - Intro Hearing Aids (3) Performance and measurement of wearable hearing aids; characteristics of hearing aids, standard and nonstandard hearing aid performance measurements, earmold acoustics, laboratory exercises. PREREQUISITE: AUSP 7101 or permission of instructor. AUSP 8115 - Pediatric Audiology (3) Audiologic procedures in pediatric assessment; special test techniques for hospital and school settings and central auditory processing; hearing loss due to birth defects. PREREQUISITE: AUSP 8020, 8103, or permission of instructor.  COREQUISITE:  AUSP 8104. AUSP 8116 - Hearing Aid Provision (3) Examination of multi-step process of hearing aid provision for children and adults; covers theoretical bases and practical implementations with contemporary hearing aids; laboratory exercises required. PREREQUISITE: AUSP 7/8114 or permission of instructor. AUSP 8117 - Individual Study/Audiol (3) Directed topics include physics of sound, hearing loss, basic audiometric testing and hearing conservation. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. AUSP 8118 - Electrophys Assessmnt (3) Methods for assessing auditory system integrity from the periphery through the central nervous system using evoked bioelectric signals; normal and disordered function will be examined. PREREQUISITE: AUSP 8020, 8103 or permission of instructor. AUSP 8119 - Hearing Conservation (2) Includes study of the effects of noise on people, noise measurement and control, federal regulations/standards, and hearing conservation. PREREQUISITE: AUSP 8012 or permission of instructor. AUSP 8121 - Ind Proj Audiology (1-6) Students pursue individual research projects under the direction of a member of the graduate faculty in audiology. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. AUSP 8124 - Clinical Educ Comm Disorders (1-3) Practical experience in clinical education and supervision of student clinicians in areas of audiology and speech-language pathology. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. AUSP 8125 - Clinical Extrnshp Audio (2-6) Fourth year clinical placement. Minimum of two credits in each of three semesters. Placement site selected in coordination with Director of Clinical Services in Audiology; approval of Director of Graduate Studies required. PREREQUISITE: Successful completion of written and oral comprehensive examination. AUSP 8127 - Adult Audiologic Rehab & Aging (3) Study of qualitative and quantitative methods to assess communicative function in adult individuals with hearing impairment; use of assessment tools for identifying intervention goals and for measuring outcomes; review and evaluation of current rehabilitative programs and strategies. PREREQUISITES: AUSP 7/8101 and AUSP 7/8104 (3 hours), or permission of instructor. AUSP 8128 - Evidenc-Based Pract Ampl (3) Seminar emphasizing the principles of evidence-based practice, with applications in recent literature concerning effectiveness of amplification-based approaches to audiological rehabilitation. PREREQUISITE: AUSP 7/8116. AUSP 8129 - Psychosoc Adj Hrng Impr (3) Seminar on facilitation of psychosocial and behavioral adjustment to hearing impairment and impact of cognitive status, general health and stigma on functional communication and social interaction of aging adults and their families; emphasis on exploration of appropriate counseling skills and strategies in both individual and group settings. PREREQUISITE: 7/8007 or permission of instructor. AUSP 8200 - Ind Read Sp Path (1-6) Directed independent study of literature in an area of speech pathology. May be repeated as often as desired. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. AUSP 8201 - Clft Pllate/Craniofcl Dis (3) Cleft palate speech with emphasis on articulatory, resonance, and phonatory aspects as well as medical and habilitative and rehabilitative principles. PREREQUISITE: AUSP 7003 and 7200 or permission of instructor. AUSP 8202 - Motor Speech Dis/Child (3) Speech deficits attributable to developmental neuromuscular disorder; etiologies and classifications of cerebral palsy, hormonal disturbances, myopathologies, and various genetic disorders; review of contemporary approaches to diagnosis and management of developmental dysarthria and apraxia; special problems associated with treating profoundly- and multiply-handicapped child. PREREQUISITE: AUSP 7/8003 and 7/8010 or permission of instructor. AUSP 8203 - Voice Disorders (3) In depth review of voice disorders by patterns of deviation, etiology, and techniques of intervention. Opportunity for original papers and/or projects. PREREQUISITE: AUSP 7/8003 or permission of instructor. AUSP 8204 - Phonological Disorders (3) Current research in disorders of phonology and articulation, including assessment, production, and remediation procedures. AUSP 8205 - Fluency Disorders (3) A discussion of the nature, assessment, and treatment of fluency problems including developmental stuttering, cluttering, and acquired fluency disorders.  Clinical rationales and protocols for children, adolescents, and adults are presented along with a review of the critical variables that contribute to a successful therapeutic outcome. AUSP 8206 - Neuromotor Speech Disor (3) Review of neuromotor systems subserving speech production and nature of neuromotor systems pathologies; diagnostic definitions and taxonomies associated with dysarthria and apraxia of speech, as well as applications of instrumental methods to clinical description of motor speech disorders; differential diagnosis, assessment, and interdisciplinary management of adults with acquired neuromotor disturbances affecting speech. PREREQUISITE: AUSP 7/8003 and 7/8010 or permission of instructor. AUSP 8207 - Clinical Instrumentation (3) Principles and procedures for measurement of speech and voice function and dysfunction; standardization, validity, and reliability of instrumental procedures; hands-on experience with acquisition and interpretation of acoustic and physiologic data for speech pathologies. AUSP 8208 - Clin Exp Spch Lang Path (1-6) Supervised clinical practice with clients. Designed to meet student's individual needs. May be repeated as often as desired. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. Permission from the Director of Clinical Services in Speech-Language Pathology is required. AUSP 8209 - Dysphagia/Related Disor (3) Anatomy and physiology of normal deglutition; nature and characteristics of swallowing disorders; methods of evaluation and management of dysphagia in adults and children; and consideration of medical conditions such as aspiration pneumonia, tracheostomy, and other complicating factors associated with dysphagia. PREREQUISITE: AUSP 7/8003 and 7/8010 or permission of instructor. AUSP 8210 - Sem Speech Pathology (1-3) Selected areas of speech or language disorders. With different content, may be repeated for up to 6 hours at the 7000 level or for up to 12 hours at the 8000 level. AUSP 8212 - Autism Spect Disord/Rel Disabl (3) Review of characteristics and etiology of autism spectrum disorders, including strategies for language and communication evaluation, assessment, and intervention with children, adolescents and adults with autism spectrum disorders and related severe communicative disabilities. AUSP 8221 - Ind Proj Sp Path (1-6) Students pursue individual research projects under the direction of a member of the graduate faculty in speech pathology. May be repeated as often as desired. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. AUSP 8300 - Lang Dis In Children (3) Perceptual, social, and cognitive correlates of language disorders associated with specific language impairment, phonological disorders, mental retardation, autism, and hearing impairment; assessment, diagnosis, and treatment of language disorders in young children (0ars). AUSP 8302 - Lang Disordrs/Adults I (3) Communicative and cognitive deficits associated with focal neurological disease; differential diagnosis, assessment, and management of adults with aphasia and right hemisphere communication disorders. PREREQUISITE: AUSP 7/8003 and 7/8010 or permission of instructor. AUSP 8303 - Lang Disordrs/Adults II (3) Communicative and cognitive deficits associated with nonfocal neurological disease; differential diagnosis, assessment, and management of individuals with traumatic brain injury, dementia, and other disorders. PREREQUISITE: AUSP 7/8003 and 7/8010 or permission of instructor. AUSP 8304 - Sem Lang Disorders (1-3) Detailed study of selected topics in language disorders in children and adults. With different content, may be repeated for up to 6 hours at the 7000 level or 12 hours at the 8000 level. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. AUSP 8305 - Language Learning Disabilities (3) Assessment and treatment of spoken and written language disorders in school-age children and adolescents with special emphasis on the collaborative role of the speech-language pathologist in school-based settings; attentional and social deficits associated with language-learning disabilities. AUSP 8308 - Augmentative/Alternatv Comm (3) Comprehensive overview of theoretical and practical issues related to use of augmentative and alternative communication (AAC) systems; assessment and intervention strategies for children and adults in need of AAC. AUSP 8309 - Sp Rehab/Head-Neck Path (3) Etiology, disordered anatomy, and physiology resulting from cancer of head and neck; ways in which cancer, surgery, and other medical treatments affect speech and voice functioning and swallowing; diagnostic and treatment approaches. AUSP 9000 - Dissertation (1-12) Academic credit for dissertation may be taken for a maximum of 12 hours and a minimum of 1 hour credit. Only 9 credits may be applied toward degree requirements for the PhD degree. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. 
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/scsd.php
