http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/bus/econ.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                              	Degree Planning
                              	
                        ECON Courses
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     ECONOMICS (ECON)
                     
                     NOTE: Students taking Business courses will be charged an additional $35 per credit
                        hour.
                     
                     
                     In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics
                           courses: ECON 6760–69. Special Topics in Economics. (1-3).  Topics vary; may be repeated when topics change. PREREQUISITE: Permission of department
                        chair.
                     
                     
                     ECON 7940-49–8940-49. Special Topics in Economics. (1-3).   Special areas of economics not otherwise included in the curriculum. Consult the online
                        class listings.
                     
                     
                     
ECON 6120 - Economic Forecasting (3) Current economic thinking on problems of recession and inflation as background to economic forecasting; methodologies of forecasting analyzed with examples of each. PREREQUISITE: SCMS 3711, or equivalent. ECON 6550 - Game Theory/Strategic Analysis (3) Study of strategic behavior when parties have opposed, mixed, or similar interest; sequential and simultaneous move games, pure mixed strategies, various equilibrium concepts, and repeated games. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2020. ECON 6810 - Quant Economic Analysis        (3) Introduction to the application of mathematical tools in business and economics; review of matrix algebra, differential and integral calculus; optimization with and without constraints; comparative statistics. ECON 6820 - Econometrics (3) Introduction to statistical procedures used to estimate and test quantitative economic theories, using microcomputer software for regression analysis. PREREQUISITE: SCMS 2710 or MATH 1530 or equivalent as approved by instructor. ECON 7100 - Econ for Global Executive (3) Essential economic theory and its application to business and economic issues. Consumer behavior, managerial economics and strategy, market structure in a global context. ECON 7120 - Adv Quant Econ Analysis        (3) Mathematical methods of economic dynamics; difference and differential equations; dynamic stability; dynamic programming; optimal control theory; applications to saving, investment, portfolio choice, labor supply, and asset pricing. ECON 7125 - Appl Stat Mthds for Bus & Econ (3) Probability and statistical techniques used in economics, finance, accounting, and management science. ECON 7126 - Economic Forecasting           (3) Statistical models for forecasting and measuring risk, growth, cyclical and seasonal patterns in business, and economic time series. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7100 or permission of instructor. ECON 7130 - Industrial Organization        (3) How different types of markets work; nature of the firm; monopoly; oligopoly; repeated games and collusion; monopolistic competition and product differentiation; entry, accomodation and exit. May also cover topics such as research and development, advertising, consumer search, among others.  PREREQUISITE: ECON 7310-8310 or permission of instructor. ECON 7170 - Intnl Trade & Investmts        (3) Introduction to trade theory and international macroeconomics. Determinants of trade flows, gains from trade and the distributional effects, optimal policy intervention. Basic international macroeconomics, including balance of payments, capital flows and exchange rate determination. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7100 or permission of instructor. ECON 7175 - Intnl Trade Theory/Pol         (3) Advanced treatment of the theory of international trade; the theory of comparative advantage, the Hecksher-Ohlin model, specific factors, returns to scale and product life-cycle hypotheses; applications of tariffs and commercial policies, international factor movements, and selected topics in international economic development. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7310-8310 or permission of instructor. ECON 7176 - Intnl Monetary Thry/Pol        (3) Advanced treatment of open economy macroeconomics: determination of internal and external balance; balance of payments accounting; models of balance of payments adjustment, foreign exchange rate determination, and international capital flows; stabilization mechanisms and policies. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7320-8320 or permission of instructor. ECON 7210 - Labor Economics                (3) Use of theory and statistical techniques to analyze various aspects of labor markets, including labor demand and supply, human capital, the wage structure, unemployment and discrimination. ECON 7300 - Econ Theory & Decisions        (3) Basic exposition of decision-making theories of consumers and firms under different market structures and informational settings. PREREQUISITES: ECON 6810 and 7010 or equivalents of both. ECON 7310 - Adv Microeconomics I           (3) A more advanced study of consumer preferences, competative demand, producer theory; welfare economics, general equilibrium and basic cooperative game theory. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7300 or permission of instructor ECON 7313 - Econ Risk & Uncertainty        (3) Expected utility theory, criticisms and alternatives; stochastic dominance; risk aversion and prudence; log-supermodularity; multiple risks; comparative statics of choice under uncertainty; applications to insurance, saving, portfolio choice, labor supply, investment, and asset pricing. ECON 7320 - Adv Macroeconomics I           (3) Microeconomic foundations of macroeconomic models; general equilibriums, overlapping generations, neoclassical growth and investment theory. Introduction to optimal control and dynamic programming. ECON 7322 - Monetary Theory & Pol          (3) Role of money in the macroeconomy: includes theory of financial structure, money creation and monetary control, theory of money demand; general equilibrium financial models: static analysis, short-run dynamics, monetary growth; rules versus discretion debate: optimal monetary policy, historical conduct of monetary policy. PREREQUISITE: ECON 3320, 7300, or 7320-8320, or permission of instructor. ECON 7710 - Health Care Economics          (3) Applies basic economic concepts to analyze health care market and evaluate health policies; including distinctive economic characteristics of health, health care industry, and health care professionals; American system of health care; current health care policy issues such as health care reform, managed care, and manpower planning. PREREQUISITES: ECON 7100 or equivalent, or permission of instructor. ECON 7711 - Appl Health Care Econ          (3) Uses economic theories and related methodologies to illuminate an array of health and health care issues.  Evaluates theoretical and empirical problems in health and medical care. Covers the structure, conduct, and performance of markets for physicians, hospitals, pharmaceuticals, and long-term care.  Covers health and health care policies of the US (local, state, federal) and select other countries. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7710 or permission of instructor. ECON 7712 - Pharmaceutical Econ            (3) Comprehensive treatment of classic and emerging literature on the methodology and applications of industrial organization and resource-based theories in pharmaceutical and related health and medical care technology industries (e.g., medical devices, biotechnologies,?) in the global context. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7300 or equivalent or permission of instructor. ECON 7715 - Global Healthcare Economics (3) Applies basic economic concepts toward understanding market economics, regulatory apparatus, and other strategic complexities in the biomedical industry and related markets; analysis of global healthcare issues and systems.  PREREQUISITE:  ECON 7100 or permission of instructor. ECON 7720 - Econ Public Sector             (3) Study of government?s role in the economy, both in theory and in practice. Production and financing of public goods, taxation, advantages and disadvantages of federalism, externalities, government programs and their effects. Emphasis on current problems and policy decisions. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7300 or permission of instructor. ECON 7810 - Econometrics I                 (3) Classical multivariate regression analysis and statistical inference under ideal and non-ideal conditions; theoretical foundations with emphasis on empirical implementation; estimation of models with categorical data, non-linearity, simple dynamics, or panel data. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7125-8125 or permission of instructor. ECON 7811 - Econometrics II                (3) Estimation and statistical inference with a focus on microeconometric techniques; panel data; instrumental variables and simultaneous equations models; estimation of treatment effects; binomial and multinomial choice models; censored data and sample selectivity; regression discontinuity design; quantile regression. ECON 7901 - Teaching Practicum             (1-6) Practical demonstrations of and experience in the art of teaching economics topics. Required of all PhD students and recommended for all graduate assistants. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. ECON 7910 - Prob In Economics              (1-6) Directed independent reading and research in an area selected by the student with the approval of the supervising faculty member and Faculty Director. Proposed plan of study must be approved prior to enrollment. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ECON 7943 - Labor and Education Economics (3) This graduate-level course in labor economics covers major topics in the labor economics literature focusing both on theory and empirics. There are three major goals of this course: 1) to introduce students to the labor economics literature and to the frontier of economic research in labor topics, 2) to familiarize students with the various empirical methodologies used in labor economics and their strengths and weaknesses, and 3) to assist students in beginning their own research. ECON 7996 - Thesis                         (3-6) Independent research for the master's degree. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. ECON 8120 - Adv Quant Econ Analysis        (3) Mathematical methods of economic dynamics; difference and differential equations; dynamic stability; dynamic programming; optimal control theory; applications to saving, investment, portfolio choice, labor supply, and asset pricing. ECON 8125 - Appl Stat Mthds for Bus & Econ (3) Probability and statistical techniques used in economics, finance, accounting, and management science. ECON 8126 - Economic Forecasting           (3) Statistical models for forecasting and measuring risk, growth, cyclical and seasonal patterns in business, and economic time series. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7100 or permission of instructor. ECON 8130 - Industrial Organization        (3) How different types of markets work; nature of the firm; monopoly; oligopoly; repeated games and collusion; monopolistic competition and product differentiation; entry, accomodation and exit. May also cover topics such as research and development, advertising, consumer search, among others.  PREREQUISITE: ECON 7310-8310 or permission of instructor. ECON 8175 - Intnl Trade Theory/Pol         (3) Advanced treatment of the theory of international trade; the theory of comparative advantage, the Hecksher-Ohlin model, specific factors, returns to scale and product life-cycle hypotheses; applications of tariffs and commercial policies, international factor movements, and selected topics in international economic development. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7310-8310 or permission of instructor. ECON 8176 - Intnl Monetary Thry/Pol        (3) Advanced treatment of open economy macroeconomics: determination of internal and external balance; balance of payments accounting; models of balance of payments adjustment, foreign exchange rate determination, and international capital flows; stabilization mechanisms and policies. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7320-8320 or permission of instructor. ECON 8210 - Labor Economics                (3) Use of theory and statistical techniques to analyze various aspects of labor markets, including labor demand and supply, human capital, the wage structure, unemployment and discrimination. ECON 8310 - Adv Microeconomics I           (3) A more advanced study of consumer preferences, competative demand, producer theory; welfare economics, general equilibrium and basic cooperative game theory. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7300 or permission of instructor ECON 8311 - Adv Microecon II               (3) Advanced microeconomic applications of game theory; static and dynamic games of complete information; Bayesian games; repeated games; introduction to mechanism design. Application include: oligopoly, basic auctions, adverse selection, moral hazard, among others. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7300 or permission of instructor. ECON 8313 - Econ Risk & Uncertainty        (3) Expected utility theory, criticisms and alternatives; stochastic dominance; risk aversion and prudence; log-supermodularity; multiple risks; comparative statics of choice under uncertainty; applications to insurance, saving, portfolio choice, labor supply, investment, and asset pricing. ECON 8320 - Adv Macroeconomics I           (3) Microeconomic foundations of macroeconomic models; general equilibriums, overlapping generations, neoclassical growth and investment theory. Introduction to optimal control and dynamic programming. ECON 8321 - Adv Macroecon II               (3) Introduction to practical stochastic dynamic programming. Topics covered include: consumption and saving; models of price determination; monetary policy, money and liquidity; bank runs; asset pricing; equilibrium search and matching models. ECON 8322 - Monetary Theory & Pol          (3) Role of money in the macroeconomy: includes theory of financial structure, money creation and monetary control, theory of money demand; general equilibrium financial models: static analysis, short-run dynamics, monetary growth; rules versus discretion debate: optimal monetary policy, historical conduct of monetary policy. PREREQUISITE: ECON 3320, 7300, or 7320-8320, or permission of instructor. ECON 8710 - Health Care Economics (3) Applies basic economic concepts to analyze health care market and evaluate health policies; including distinctive economic characteristics of health, health care industry, and health care professionals; American system of health care; current health care policy issues such as health care reform, managed care, and manpower planning. PREREQUISITES: ECON 7100 or equivalent, or permission of instructor. ECON 8711 - Appl Health Care Econ          (3) Uses economic theories and related methodologies to illuminate an array of health and health care issues.  Evaluates theoretical and empirical problems in health and medical care. Covers the structure, conduct, and performance of markets for physicians, hospitals, pharmaceuticals, and long-term care.  Covers health and health care policies of the US (local, state, federal) and select other countries. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7710 or permission of instructor. ECON 8712 - Pharmaceutical Econ            (3) Comprehensive treatment of classic and emerging literature on the methodology and applications of industrial organization and resource-based theories in pharmaceutical and related health and medical care technology industries (e.g., medical devices, biotechnologies,?) in the global context. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7300 or equivalent or permission of instructor. ECON 8720 - Econ Public Sector             (3) Study of government?s role in the economy, both in theory and in practice. Production and financing of public goods, taxation, advantages and disadvantages of federalism, externalities, government programs and their effects. Emphasis on current problems and policy decisions. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7300 or permission of instructor. ECON 8810 - Econometrics I                 (3) Classical multivariate regression analysis and statistical inference under ideal and non-ideal conditions; theoretical foundations with emphasis on empirical implementation; estimation of models with categorical data, non-linearity, simple dynamics, or panel data. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7125-8125 or permission of instructor. ECON 8811 - Econometrics II                (3) Estimation and statistical inference with a focus on microeconometric techniques; panel data; instrumental variables and simultaneous equations models; estimation of treatment effects; binomial and multinomial choice models; censored data and sample selectivity; regression discontinuity design; quantile regression. ECON 8812 - Econometrics III               (3) Analysis and modeling of economic and financial time series with applications. ARIMA and ARCH processes; stationarity, causality and cointegration; vector autoregression, structural model and equilibrium correction models.PREREQUISITE: ECON 7810. ECON 8901 - Teaching Practicum             (1-6) Practical demonstrations of and experience in the art of teaching economics topics. Required of all PhD students and recommended for all graduate assistants. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. ECON 8910 - Prob In Economics              (1-6) Directed independent reading and research in an area selected by the student with the approval of the supervising faculty member and Faculty Director. Proposed plan of study must be approved prior to enrollment. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ECON 8943 - Labor and Education Economics (3) This graduate-level course in labor economics covers major topics in the labor economics literature focusing both on theory and empirics. There are three major goals of this course: 1) to introduce students to the labor economics literature and to the frontier of economic research in labor topics, 2) to familiarize students with the various empirical methodologies used in labor economics and their strengths and weaknesses, and 3) to assist students in beginning their own research.
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/bus/econ.php
