http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/bus/bit.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                              	Degree Planning
                              	
                        BIT Courses
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     BUSINESS INFORMATION & TECHNOLOGY (MIS)
                     
                     NOTE: Students taking Business courses will be charged an additional $35 per credit
                        hour.
                     
                     
                     In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics
                           courses: MIS 6000-09. Topics in Teaching Methods in Information Technology. (3).  Selected topics of current interest in management information systems and computer
                        software applications. Designed for teacher certification requirements. Topics are
                        varied and announced in online class listings. NOTE: Restricted to teacher certification;
                        not applicable toward business degree requirements. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor.
                     
                     
                     MIS 7470-9–8470-9. Topics in Information Systems. (1-3).  Studies in ISDS as applied to solution of current operational problems in businesses.
                        Topics change each semester as determined by relevant developments in decision sciences;
                        consult the online class listings for current topic. (Maximum 9 hours credit.) PREREQUISITE:
                        Permission of instructor.
                     
                     
                     MIS 8700-9. Topics in Information Systems. (1-3).  In-depth study of selected current topics in MIS and related areas. Topics change
                        each semester as determined by relevant developments; consult online class listings
                        for current topic. (Maximum of 9 hours credit). PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor.
                     
                     
                     
MIS 6672 - Project Mgmt Tools/Lead (3) Computer-based project management tools and project management leadership roles and techniques. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: MIS 3885. MIS 6681 - Fundamental/Software Testing (3) Software testing objectives, planning, techniques, and organizational options.  Manual and auotmated software testing techniques and test case generation methodologies.  PREREQUISITES:  MIS 2845, 3770. MIS 6682 - Advanced Sortware Testing (3) Topics include advanced software testing methods, the roles of software testers and users at all stages of software development, walkthroughs, inspections, and reviews, testing in standard versus agile developments environments.  PREREQUISITE:  MIS 4681. MIS 7030 - Integ Software Appl            (3) Emphasizes mastery of suite application software using an integrated approach to software applications and employing problem-based methods; course meets licensure standards. MIS 7060 - Program Devel & File Str       (3) Programming principles, program logic development, internal data structures, and file organization; development of structures and computer programs using a modern programming language. MIS 7070 - Intro to MIS in Business (3) Provides essential business core content needed for IS/IT management; examines effective methods of hiring and maintaining qualified IS/IT employees, using accounting and financial information effectively for IS/IT strategic decisions and leadership. MIS 7160 - Mobile Application Development (3) Introduction to the technology of computing; processor operation including fetch/execute, input/output, instruction types, interrupt handling, addressing schemes and multiprocessing; business systems software including operating systems from single-user single-task to multi-user multitask; major current operating systems. MIS 7170 - Global Info Tech Mgmt (3) Information technology's impact on globalization of businesses; international IT environment; models and issues in international IS; planning and managing global systems; case studies and applications. PREREQUISITE: MIS 7465 or permission of instructor. MIS 7190 - Programing For Business        (3) Fundamentals of programming for business projects, including Internet-based business applications and object-oriented programming languages. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. MIS 7435 - Web Site Devel                 (3) Focuses on Internet, intranets, and other online technologies to develop and maintain the enterprise web site in a business environment; web mastering techniques include coverage of web site creation, design, programming, planning, enhancement, and maintenance. MIS 7455 - Cyber Ethics in IT (3) Business ethics and computer ethics issues and concepts in an online environment, including relevant topics such as privacy, freedom of expression, intellectual property, software development and testing, and related IT management decisions. PREREQUISITE: 9 hours of graduate credit or permission of instructor. MIS 7480 - Thriving In Info Age           (3) Introduction to information and technology challenges facing today's organization, including developing technology-enabled strategies and designing organizational systems and structures that facilitate development and execution of these strategies. MIS 7605 - Bus Database Systems           (3) Management of database for effective support of management information systems. Topics include characteristics and design of schemas and subschemas for hierarchical, network, and relational data models. MIS 7610 - Sys Analysis & Design          (3) Comprehensive structured approach to application system development process; emphasis on requirements analysis, logical specifications, structured design, and implementation of information systems. MIS 7615 - Enterprise Network & Security (3) Introduction to concepts and terminology of data communication, network design, and distributed information systems; topics include equipment protocols and architectures, transmission alternatives, the communications environment, regulatory issues, and network pricing and management. MIS 7620 - Business Intelligence (3) Business Intelligence is the study of computerized support for management decision making.  Topics include data mining, artificial neural networks, text and web mining, data warehousing, expert systems, and knowledge management. PREREQUISITES or COREQUISITES: MIS 7605, ISDS 7120 or equivalent, or permission of the instructor. MIS 7621 - Data Analytics for Business (3) This advanced course in business analytics goes into depth in techniques and methods applied to real world problems and data. Techniques covered include: artificial neural networks, decision trees, nearest neighbor approaches, predictive modeling, and genetic algorithms. The emphasis will be on application in business. The course will provide guidance on building the business case and the model including problem definition and data evaluation, and evaluation of the modal. Hands-on exercises will be required using analytics packages/languages as Tableau, Rapid Miner, IBM Modeler, Microsoft SQL, R. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: MIS 7620 and SCMS 7110, or instructor permission. MIS 7630 - Informatn Systms Proj          (3) Development or evaluation or both of specialized software product; field studies to collect and analyze data pertinent to significant information systems issues. PREREQUISITE: MIS 7610. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. MIS 7640 - Inform Sys Mgmt/Plan           (3) Information systems planning and management for the corporate executive and information systems manager; emphasis on information as a critical resource and its role in policy and long-range planning. PREREQUISITES: MIS 7605. COREQUISITES: MIS 7610. MIS 7650 - Info Syst Global Enterprise (3) Information systems and their roles and applications in global enterprises, including conceptual foundations, business applications, impacts on organizational behavior, and how IT may be used to implement global strategies to gain competitive advantage. MIS 7655 - Adv Systems Analysis           (3) Advanced concepts in information systems planning and development with focus on current information technologies and systems development practices that lead to timely delivery of effective information systems solutions; special attention on communication and interpersonal skills required for today's systems development activities. PREREQUISITE: MIS 7610. MIS 7660 - Advanced Data Management (3) Advanced concepts in data management and in the strategic use of data. Topics will be selected from data strategy, business intelligence, data mining and the strategic use of data warehouses, data quality, the business value of data, unstructured data, modern data administration, master data management, data management in cloud computing, data issues in agile development, and other contemporary data topics.  PREREQUISITE: MIS 7605. MIS 7665 - Adv Business Compt Envn        (3) Technical aspects and managerial implications of several state-of-the-art technologies with potential effects on competitive advantage, probability and cost, and personnel resources. PREREQUISITES: MIS 7605, 7610, and 7615; or permission of the instructor. MIS 7670 - Information Security Mgmt (3) Comprehensive survey of technical and managerial aspects of computer and network security in the business environment. Emphasis is on managerial issues and decisions related to selecting and managing all aspects of information security. MIS 7671 - Project/Change Mgmt            (3) Overview of theoretical and practical concepts in management of IT projects; explores unique and particular challenges resulting from rapid technological change and dynamic business environments; difficulty of managing changes in organizations resulting from introducing or revising information systems, emphasizing change management role of the IS specialist. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: MIS 7610 or equivalent MIS 7910 - Prob Mgmt Info Syst            (1-6) Directed independent research projects in an area selected by the student with approval of supervising faculty member and Faculty Director. Proposed plan of study must be approved prior to enrollment. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. MIS 7996 - Thesis                         (3-6) Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. MIS 8465 - Inform Sys In Organiztns       (3) Information systems and their roles and applications in organizations, including conceptual foundations, underlying technologies, business applications, impacts on organizational behavior, and how IT may be used to implement organizational strategy and gain competitive advantage. MIS 8605 - Bus Database Systems           (3) Management of database for effective support of management information systems. Topics include characteristics and design of schemas and subschemas for hierarchical, network, and relational data models. MIS 8610 - Sys Analysis & Design          (3) Comprehensive structured approach to application system development process; emphasis on requirements analysis, logical specifications, structured design, and implementation of information systems. MIS 8615 - Data Comm Systms/Netwks        (3) Introduction to concepts and terminology of data communication, network design, and distributed information systems; topics include equipment protocols and architectures, transmission alternatives, the communications environment, regulatory issues, and network pricing and management. MIS 8620 - Business Intelligence (3) Business Intelligence is the study of computerized support for management decision making.  Topics include data mining, artificial neural networks, text and web mining, data warehousing, expert systems, and knowledge management. PREREQUISITES or COREQUISITES: MIS 8605, ISDS 7120 or equivalent, or permission of the instructor. MIS 8621 - Data Analytics for Business (3) This advanced course in business analytics goes into depth in techniques and methods applied to real world problems and data. Techniques covered include: artificial neural networks, decision trees, nearest neighbor approaches, predictive modeling, and genetic algorithms. The emphasis will be on application in business. The course will provide guidance on building the business case and the model including problem definition and data evaluation, and evaluation of the modal. Hands-on exercises will be required using analytics packages/languages as Tableau, Rapid Miner, IBM Modeler, Microsoft SQL, R. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: MIS 7620 and SCMS 7110, or instructor permission. MIS 8640 - Inform Sys Mgmt/Plan           (3) Information systems planning and management for the corporate executive and information systems manager; emphasis on information as a critical resource and its role in policy and long-range planning. PREREQUISITES: MIS 7605 and 7615. COREQUISITES: MIS 7610. MIS 8650 - Global Informatn Techn         (3) Information technology's impact on globalizations of businesses; international IT environment; models and issues in international IS; planning and managing global systems; case studies and applications. PREREQUISITE: MIS 7465 or permission of instructor. MIS 8655 - Adv Systems Analysis           (3) Advanced concepts in information systems planning and development with focus on current information technologies and systems development practices that lead to timely delivery of effective information systems solutions; special attention on communication and interpersonal skills required for today's systems development activities. PREREQUISITE: MIS 7610. MIS 8660 - Adv Networking/Data Mgt        (3) Advanced concepts in data management and in the strategic use of data. Topics will be selected from data strategy, business intelligence, data mining and the strategic use of data warehouses, data quality, the business value of data, unstructured data, modern data administration, master data management, data management in cloud computing, data issues in agile development, and other contemporary data topics.  PREREQUISITE: MIS 7605. MIS 8665 - Adv Business Compt Envn        (3) Technical aspects and managerial implications of several state-of-the-art technologies with potential effects on competitive advantage, probability and cost, and personnel resources. PREREQUISITES: MIS 7605, 7610, and 7615; or permission of the instructor. MIS 8670 - Comp/Network Security (3) Comprehensive survey of technical and managerial aspects of computer and network security in the business environment. Emphasis is on managerial issues and decisions related to selecting and managing all aspects of information security. MIS 8710 - Sem/Inform Systms I            (3) Scientific methodology of MIS research; MIS frameworks and theory of MIS; organization-critique and analyze foundational papers; in-depth study of researchable topics. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MIS 8720 - Sem/Inform Systms II           (3) Development of a research proposal; critique and evaluation related to research and the proposal. PREREQUISITE: MIS 8710 or permission of instructor. MIS 8730 - Theory Building (3) Theory building is an important topic for both conceptual and empirical research in business research. This course takes a cross disciplinary approach focusing on how to analyze, construct, and use theory in research. Theories from information systems, marketing, and management are reviewed and best practices in theory building across business disciplines are introduced and applied. MIS 8800 - Experimental Research Methods (3) This seminar provides in-depth coverage of experimental design research issues and methods in business research.  At the completion of the seminar, students should have in-depth knowledge on how to frame questions and hypotheses that are testable using experimental designs, how to frame an experimental study,  how to acquire data, conduct the experiment, perform analyses with popular statistical software, and how to write-up research results from an experiment. Course includes weekly lecture and hands-on laboratory sessions.  PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. MIS 8910 - Prob Mgmt Info Syst            (1-6) Directed independent research projects in an area selected by the student with approval of supervising faculty member and Faculty Director. Proposed plan of study must be approved prior to enrollment. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given.
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/bus/bit.php
