http://www.memphis.edu/idt/programs/idt_cert.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Instructional Design and Technology
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        What Is IDT
                        Programs
                        IDT Courses
                        Faculty
                        Contact Us
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Instructional Design and Technology
                              	
                        
                              	Programs
                              	
                        Certificate in IDT
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Certificate in IDT
                     
                     Our graduate-level certificate program is completely online and offers two tracks:
                        (1) Educational Technology and (2) Design and Development. Each track is comprised
                        of four classes as described below. The courses may be completed as part of a degree
                        program in IDT or other program with your advisor's approval.
                     
                     
                     Transform your career!
                     
                     Track 1: Educational Technology
                     
                     The IDT Certificate in Educational Technology is designed for educators who want to
                        integrate technology with learning in PK-12 schools and institutions of higher learning.
                        This completely online program is comprised of four courses designed to help educators
                        meaningfully integrate technology with learning.
                     
                     
                     Sample Job Opportunities
                     
                     Some who have earned the EdTech Certificate have transformed their teaching to become
                        models for technology integration, while others have leveraged  the certificate to
                        become technology integration specialists, technology facilitators, technology coaches,
                        curriculum integration specialists, college instructors, and district directors of
                        technology.
                     
                     
                     Required Courses
                     
                     The focus of these four courses is to develop the technology competencies needed for the development, utilization,
                        and integration of technology with learning. The course rotation schedule is available before you even begin taking classes enabling you to make plans well
                        in advance. The certificate planning sheet helps you and your advisor document your progress.
                     
                     
                     Note that some, and in specific cases all, of these hours may apply towards a Master's
                        or doctorate in IDT, as well as many other graduate degrees.
                     
                     
                     A Grade of A or B must be earned in each class to earn the certificate.
                     
                     IDT 7061: Lesson Planning and Technology Integration (3 hours) -  Computers and technology in the instructional process, including problem
                        solving using computer tools; technological applications for the classroom; uses for
                        technology in different content areas.
                     
                     
                     IDT 7062: Teaching, Learning, and Technology (3 hours) -  Application of instructional design principles to creation of computer-based
                        instruction; using technology as a cognitive tool.  Prerequisite: IDT 7061 .
                     
                     
                     IDT 7063: Models and Innovations of Learning (3 hours) -  Analysis of instructional models and educational trends related to educational
                        technology.
                     
                     
                     IDT 7064: Instructional Development (3 hours) -  Issues, processes, and strategies relative to changes occurring with
                        design, implementation, and evaluation of the integration of technology with learning.  Prerequisite: IDT 7063 .
                     
                     
                     Track 2: Design and Development
                     
                     The IDT Certificate in Design and Development prepares to you work as an instructional
                        designer and developer in non-education contexts such as business, government, military,
                        and health care. This four-course certificate has been carefully planned to prepare
                        you to succeed in instructional design and development in these contexts.
                     
                     
                     Sample Job Opportunities
                     
                     There are many varied opportunities for work as an instructional designer and developer.
                        For example, here is our IDT job board with over 180 job descriptions in our field.
                        And here are over 20 sites where you can find jobs in instructional design. With the
                        growth of e-learning and online instruction, employment prospects in this field are
                        very positive.
                     
                     
                     Required Courses
                     
                     The four courses described below have been planned and sequenced to lead you through a progression
                        of skill development needed to be an effective instructional designer and developer.
                        The course rotation schedule  is planned and available so that you can plan when to take the courses. The certificate planning sheet helps you and your advisor document your progress.
                     
                     
                     Note that some, and in specific cases all, of these hours may apply towards a Master's
                        or doctorate in IDT, as well as many other graduate degrees.
                     
                     
                     A Grade of A or B must be earned in each class to earn the certificate.
                     
                     IDT 7060: Technology Tools for Learning (3 hours) -  This course focuses on the design and development of various forms of
                        media to support learning. Students will create products to solve instructional problems
                        through the use of of various technologies.
                     
                     
                     IDT 7070: Instructional Design Process I (3 hours) - Applies the instructional design process to conduct a needs assessment
                        that supports the creation of self-paced instructional units addressing performance
                        and learning problems for education, business, health care, and related learning environments.
                     
                     
                     IDT 7080: Instructional Design Process II (3 hours) -  Prepares students to understand and apply instructional design principles
                        to evaluate instructional materials that are designed to solve performance and learning
                        problems. Applies the instructional design process to create a self-paced instructional
                        unit based on documentation produced in IDT 7070/8070.
                     
                     
                     IDT 7090: Developing Interactive Learning Environments I (3 hours) -  This course is about developing interactive computer-based and online
                        learning environments. Students will follow instructional design models and principles
                        to develop learning environments that are engaging, efficient, and effective. Students
                        will learn about current e-learning software tools and processes. A student may repeat
                        this course for a maximum of 6 credit hours (while learning advanced content). Prerequisite: IDT 7070 and 7080 .
                     
                     
                     Tuition and Fees
                     
                     Students enrolled in completely online programs at the University of Memphis do not
                        pay out-of-state tuition. As this certificate is completely online, IDT students do
                        not pay out-of-state tuition. Visit the Tuition Estimator to begin planning your budget for graduate studies (Select eRate under Resident Status).
                     
                     
                     You can investigate opportunities for scholarship s and financial aid . Graduate assistantships are occasionally available for outstanding students.
                     
                     
                     Apply and Register for Classes
                     
                     Students interested in receiving the graduate-level Certificate in Instructional Design
                        and Technology must be admitted to this graduate certificate program.
                     
                     
                     Note: If you are already enrolled in any degree program, you do not need to complete the
                           application process. Instead you will need to submit a Change of Status Application .
                     
                     
                        
                        Application Checklist
                        
                        Register for Classes
                        
                        Description of all IDT Courses
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Both tracks for the Certificate in Instructional Design and Technology are approved
                              by the Tennessee Board of Regents. However, they are not an endorsement or add-on
                              licensure. After completing the required coursework and application form, the certificate
                              designation will appear on the your university transcript.
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply Now
                              
                           
                           
                              Tuition
                              
                           
                           
                              Graduation Info
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/12/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/idt/programs/idt_cert.php
