http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/edu/hss.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                              	Degree Planning
                              	
                        HSS Courses
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     HEALTH AND SPORT SCIENCE (HMSE)
                     
                     
HMSE 7010 - Research Methods in HS (3) Introduction to health, nutrition, sport science, and/or exercise research/methodology. Addresses applicable research techniques and designs emphasizing planning, conducting, and reporting research, selecting appropriate statistical analyses, and interpreting findings. PREREQUISISTE: Permission of Instructor HMSE 7403 - Measurement/Evaluation (3) (PHED 7403). Includes selection, application, and evaluation of certain tests appropriate to Health Studies. HMSE 7996 - Thesis (1-6) (FITW/HLTH/PHED /RECR 7996). Application for writing a thesis must be filled out on an approved form after consultation with the major professor and filed with the Director of Graduate Programs. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given.
                     
                     EXERCISE AND SPORT SCIENCE (EXSS)
                     
                     In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics
                           courses:  6902-11. Special Topics in Exercise, Sport, and Movement Science. (3).  Current topics in exercise, sport, and movement sciences. May be repeated with change
                        in topic and content. Topics are varied and in online class listings. 7902-11--8902-11. Special Topics EXSS. (1-3). (PHED 7903-13). Current topics in exercise and sport science. May be repeated with a change in topic.
                        See online class listings for topic.
                     
                     
                     
EXSS 6000 - Exer Test Interp Lab (3) Acquisition and practice of laboratory/clinical skills in measurement techniques, tools, and interpretations of physical performance and fitness; introduces theoretical and functional techniques of graded exercise testing for functional and/or diagnostic assessment. EXSS 6010 - Supp/Food/Drugs Health (3) A comprehensive exposure to the role of nutrition in optimizing performance and training adaptations, including macro- and micronutrient intake, proper timing and amount of intake, and analysis of the validity of proposed ergogenic performance and/or structural adaptations. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. EXSS 6406 - Exercise Test/ECG Intrp (3) Introduction to methods of conducting ECG and cardiopulmonary exercise testing for asymptomatic and symptomatic populations; ACSM principles of exercise testing and methods of ECG interpretation. EXSS 6603 - Adv Meth Strength Cond (3) Advanced study of training principles for strength and conditioning programs and their underlying physiological bases. PREREQUISITES: Permission of instructor. EXSS 7007 - Nutraceuticls/Diet Supp Hlth (3) In depth review of several classes of nutraceuticals and dietary supplements with relevance to human health, disease prevention, and physical performance improvement.  Both in vitro and in vivo animal and human models are used to provide a mechanistic basis for proposed actions of various nutritional ingredients on target physiological systems.  Intended for graduate students studying Exercise Science, Physiology, Biochemistry, Nutrition, Medicine, Nursing, or related fields.  PREREQUISITE:  Permission of instructor. EXSS 7020 - Pub/Prop in Health & Biomed (3) Steps involved in preparing external funding proposals and manuscripts for publication. Particular attention given to the following: organizing document components, effective writing techniques, documentation issues, interpretation of findings, sentence structure, and reference citing. Identification of appropriate journals for publication consideration as well as common and novel funding sources (federal, state, local, and private) for supporting research work. EXSS 7123 - Mech Analysis Mtr Skill (3) (PHED 7123). Experiences that will enhance the understanding and practical application of the laws of mechanical physics to the fundamental techniques utilized in the performance of physical activities. EXSS 7133 - Current Readings EXSS (3) (PHED 7133). Directed readings in area of exercise and sport science; materials selected to strengthen areas of study. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours. PREREQUISITE:  Permission of instructor.  Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. EXSS 7142 - Seminar/Health Sprt Sci (1-3) (HLTH 7142). May be repeated for maximum of 3 credits. NOTE: EXSS majors may not use this course to fulfill degree requirements.PREREQUISITE:  Permission of instructor.  Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. EXSS 7152 - Problems in EXSS (3) Independent study and/or research project on selected problems and issues in exercise and sport science. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. EXSS 7163 - Advanced Motor Learning (3) (PHED 7163). Analysis of research evidence related to motor skill learning and performance; emphasis on feedback mechanisms, practice variables, and retention and transfer of skills. EXSS 7173 - Sport/Exercise Psych (3) Survey of literature related to psychological aspects of participation in sport, exercise, and physical activity settings. EXSS 7201 - Phys Exer Musculoskltl (3) An analysis of the physiological bases of musculoskeletal performance as well as specific adaptations that occur consequent to various regimens of exercise; discussion of selected techniques for assessing musculoskeletal function and structure. EXSS 7202 - Phys Ex Mtbolc/Cardresp (3) An analysis of the acute and chronic metabolic/cardiorespiratory bases of human performance and fitness under various internal and external environmental conditions; discussion of selected techniques for assessing metabolic/cardiorespiratory function and structure. EXSS 7210 - Anlys Muscle Function (3) Theoretical bases for and applications of isokinetic (velocity-controlled) and isoinertial (dynamic constant external resistance) testing; students are guided in developing and evaluating new specialized protocols for assessing musculoskeletal function with an emphasis on velocity-spectrum and load-spectrum testing; data interpretation will be stressed. PREREQUISITES: EDPR 7523, EDPR 7541, EXSS 7201, or permission of instructor. EXSS 7220 - Adv Skltl Mscl Str/Fnct (3) In-depth study of the skeletal muscle system; follows EXSS 7201 and covers gross, cellular, and molecular responses and adaptations of skeletal muscle of various types of human exercise; detailed information critical to the graduate student specializing in or interested in human skeletal muscle and exercise. EXSS 7230 - Exercise Endocrinology (3) Introduces principles of hormonal regulation of human physiological function and methods of assessing endocrine status; examines hormonal responses and adaptations to exercise and physical activity in healthy and diseased humans, testing and analysis procedures, and human exercise responses. EXSS 7240 - Athero/Cvd Patho/Interv (3) In-depth review of atherosclerosis and associated clinical manifestations; prevention and treatment emphasizing exercise, nutrient, and pharmacological therapy. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. EXSS 7250 - Motor Control Bhvl Emp (3) Analysis of theoretical and empirical basis for psychological mechanisms underlying movement control and skill development. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. EXSS 7300 - Coach-Musclsketl Antmy Strngth (3) Gross structure and function of the musculoskeletal system as related to purposeful movement of the human body during weight training activities. Note: May not be used for elective course credit in EXSS. EXSS 7532 - Resrch/Sport Neuromechn (3) Hands-on research methods training, including technological training in neuromechanical data collection and analysis; tests reliability and validity of data obtained using different technologies to examine acute response and chronic adaptation to exercise. PREREQUISITES: EDPR 7123 and EXSS 7201, or permission of instructor. EXSS 7542 - Adv Kinesiology (3) (PHED 7542). Analysis of mechanical factors related to body motions using experimentation and computer analysis of biophysical data; applications-intensive course involving collaboration between a faculty member and one or more students. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7523, 7541 or permission of instructor. EXSS 7800 - Internship in EXSS (3) Directed laboratory experience focusing on development of knowledge, skills, and techniques needed to function as Exercise and Sport Science specialist in public or private settings. Does not substitute for EXSS 7850 or serve as a capstone experience. PREREQUISITE: Permission of Instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. EXSS 7850 - Research Lab Residency in EXSS (1-6) Capstone experience focused on the development and/or application of research evidence to professional practice in EXSS. Involves 40 contact hours per credit hour and is typically undertaken in one of the EXSS Human Performance Laboratories, although other UM campus sites focused on evidenced-based practice may be considered for approval. Prerequisites: Completion of 18 credit hours in the program of study with a minimum graduate GPA of 3.00 and permission of Major Professor, EXSS Program Coordinator, and Director of the laboratory at which the residency is to be performed. EXSS 7950 - Applied Project In EXSS (1-6) Scholarly capstone experience in which students integrate and apply discipline-specific knowledge, skills, and insights in developing a product related to their professional goals as approved by a three-person project committee.PREREQUISITE: Completion of 18 credit hours in the program of study with a minimum graduate GPA of 3.00 and permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given EXSS 8007 - Nutraceuticals/Diet Supp Hlth (3) In depth review of several classes of nutraceuticals and dietary supplements with relevance to human health, disease prevention, and physical performance improvement.  Both in vitro and in vivo animal and human models are used to provide a mechanistic basis for proposed actions of various nutritional ingredients on target physiological systems.  Intended for graduate students studying Exercise Science, Physiology, Biochemistry, Nutrition, Medicine, Nursing, or related fields.  PREREQUISITE:  Permission of instructor. EXSS 8081 - Supervised Research (1-6) Collaborative research with faculty within the major to include planning, design, management, analysis, and reporting of research. May be repeated as often as desired, but only 9 credit hours count toward the degree. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor.Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. EXSS 8123 - Mech Analysis Mtr Skill (3) Experiences that will enhance the understanding and practical application of the laws of mechanical physics to the fundamental techniques utilized in the performance of physical activities. EXSS 8133 - Current Readings EXSS (3) (PHED 7133). Directed readings in area of exercise and sport science; materials selected to strengthen areas of study. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours. PREREQUISITE:  Permission of instructor.  Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. EXSS 8142 - Seminar/Health Sprt Sci (1-3) (HLTH 7142). May be repeated for maximum of 3 credits. NOTE: EXSS majors may not use this course to fulfill degree requirements. PREREQUISITE:  Permission of instructor.  Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. EXSS 8163 - Advanced Motor Learning (3) (PHED 7163) Analysis of research evidence related to motor skill learning and performance; emphasis on feedback mechanisms, practice variables, and retention and transfer of skills. EXSS 8173 - Sport/Exercise Psych (3) Survey of literature related to psychological aspects of participation in sport, exercise, and physical activity settings. EXSS 8201 - Phys Exer Musculosklt (3) An analysis of the physiological bases of musculoskeletal performance as well as specific adaptations that occur consequent to various regimens of exercise; discussion of selected techniques for assessing musculoskeletal function and structure. EXSS 8202 - Phys Ex Mtbolc/Cardresp (3) An analysis of the acute and chronic metabolic/cardiorespiratory bases of human performance and fitness under various internal and external environmental conditions; discussion of selected techniques for assessing metabolic/cardiorespiratory function and structure. EXSS 8210 - Anlys Muscle Function (3) Theoretical bases for and applications of isokinetic (velocity-controlled) and isoinertial (dynamic constant external resistance) testing; students are guided in developing and evaluating new specialized protocols for assessing musculoskeletal function with an emphasis on velocity-spectrum and load-spectrum testing; data interpretation will be stressed. PREREQUISITES: EDPR 7523, EDPR 7541, EXSS 7201, or permission of instructor. EXSS 8220 - Adv Skltl Mscl Str/Fnct (3) In-depth study of the skeletal muscle system; follows EXSS 7201 and covers gross, cellular, and molecular responses and adaptations of skeletal muscle of various types of human exercise; detailed information critical to the graduate student specializing in or interested in human skeletal muscle and exercise. EXSS 8230 - Exercise Endocrinology (3) Introduces principles of hormonal regulation of human physiological function and methods of assessing endocrine status; examines hormonal responses and adaptations to exercise and physical activity in healthy and diseased humans, testing and analysis procedures, and human exercise responses. EXSS 8240 - Athero/Cvd Patho/Interv (3) In-depth review of atherosclerosis and associated clinical manifestations; prevention and treatment emphasizing exercise, nutrient, and pharmacological therapy. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. EXSS 8250 - Motor Control Bhvl Emp (3) Analysis of theoretical and empirical basis for psychological mechanisms underlying movement control and skill development. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. EXSS 8532 - Resrch/Sport Neuromechn (3) Hands-on research methods training, including technological training in neuromechanical data collection and analysis; tests reliability and validity of data obtained using different technologies to examine acute response and chronic adaptation to exercise. PREREQUISITES: EDPR 7123 and EXSS 7201, or permission of instructor. EXSS 8542 - Adv Kinesiology (3) (PHED 7542). Analysis of mechanical factors related to body motions using experimentation and computer analysis of biophysical data; applications-intensive course involving collaboration between a faculty member and one or more students. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7523, 7541 or permission of instructor. 
                     
                     FAITH AND HEALTH (FTHT)
                     
                     
FTHT 7000 - Practicum in Faith Health 1 (3) Students will participate in practical and immersive work experiences at appropriate healthcare settings (e.g., hospitals, clinics) such as the Church Health Center and Methodist Lebonheur Healthcare, in order to fulfill the pre-assessed University of Memphis requirements for Experiential Learning Credits (ELC). Grade mode of S/U,I. FTHT 7001 - Practicum in Faith Health 2 (3) Students will participate in practical and immersive work experiences at appropriate healthcare settings (e.g., hospitals, clinics) such as the Church Health Center and Methodist Lebonheur Healthcare, in order to fulfill the pre-assessed University of Memphis requirements for Experiential Learning Credits (ELC). Grade mode of S/U, I. FTHT 7002 - Comm & Whole Person Healthcare (3) With a strong focus on the Church Health Center and educating students on the holistic method of care provided to patients through this organization, this class will explore issues in community-based health and healthcare systems as they relate to whole person healthcare. FTHT 7003 - Intersection Faith and Health (3) Faith and health are human cultural universals that have a long history of reciprocal interaction, especially in serving underserved populations. This course will study the history of their interaction through a historical and theological framework, and delve into contemporary issues and models of intersection through examining history, models of healthcare, and case studies.
                     
                     HEALTH PROMOTION (HPRO)
                     
                     In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics
                           courses:  6202-20. Workshops in HPRO. (1-3). (HLTH 6202-20). Selected phases of health promotion through group study; in-depth study of areas
                        of interest and need for persons in health promotion and related fields. 6902-11 . Special Topics HPRO. (3). Current topics in health promotion. May be repeated with change in topic. See online
                        class listings for topic. 7902-11. Special Topics HPRO. (1-3). (HLTH 7092-11). Current topics in health promotion. May be repeated with a change in topic. See online
                        class listings for topic.
                     
                     
                     
HPRO 7122 - Current Readings HPRO (3) (HLTH 7122). Directed readings in health promotion; material selected to strengthen areas of study. May be repeated for maximum of 9 credits. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. HPRO 7142 - Seminar in HPRO (1-3) (HLTH 7142). Graduate seminar in health promotion. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. HPRO 7152 - Problems In HPRO (3) Independent study and/or research project on selected health problems or issues. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. HPRO 7182 - Health Promotion (3) (FITW 7182). Introduction to broad and challenging academic discipline and profession of health promotion; explores theories of behavior and change, ethical and professional considerations, as well as fundamentals of program planning, implementation, and evaluation. HPRO 7183 - Lifestyle/Wellness/Disease (3) Effect of physical activity, physical fitness, and other lifestyle behaviors on health and prevention or delay of selected chronic diseases. HPRO 7702 - Contmporary Hlth Issue (3) (HLTH 7702). Extensive examination of timely and important issues in the health promotion area. HPRO 7703 - Life Phys Act & Hlth (3) Introduces classroom health promotion, including approaches to policy making, program development and implementation, practice of self-care, behavioral and attitudinal change, and health enhancement. PREREQUISITE: Admission to TEP or licensed to teach. HPRO 7704 - Int Hlth Beh Evdy Life (3) Examines theories of behavior change, barriers to behavior change, how behaviors and individual risk factors affect chronic disease, how our environment affects health behaviors, and how to critique health information in order to synthesize nutrition, activity, and healthy behavior. HPRO 7710 - Event Plan/Prog Promo (3) Introduction to program promotion techniques and event planning strategies; focuses on techniques and requirements for planning and conducting health promotion campaigns and special events such as meetings, corporate events, professional conferences, community functions, state/national initiatives, and sponsorships. HPRO 7712 - Epidemiology (3) (HLTH 7712). Introduction to selected diseases of special concern in public health practice with emphasis on epidemiologic models and methods. HPRO 7722 - Hlth Intrvntn Thry/Apps (3) (HLTH 7722). Examination of an array of health theories and their applications to relevant health problems and prevention-intervention programs; these theoretical frameworks will be critiqued in some depth. HPRO 7732 - Random Cln Trial/HS (3) Provides thorough grounding in planning and executing randomized clinical trials pertaining to design, conducting, evaluation, and resource acquisition. PREREQUISITES: EDPR 7523, 7541, or permission of instructor. HPRO 7780 - Health Counseling (3) Introduces clinical counseling techniques focusing on the development and application of basic health counseling and lifestyle coaching skills.  Self-evaluation, giving and receiving feedback and reflection upon the development of clinical skills and ethical tendencies is an essential part of this course. HPRO 7790 - Lead/Manage HPRO Prgms (3) Concepts and practice of the structure and functions of health promotion programs.  Provides a foundation for various project direction skills, including planning, implementation, leadership, management (time, risk, and financial), quality assurance, evaluation, dissemination, and maintenance of health programs. HPRO 7800 - Internship in HPRO (3-6) Directed field experience focusing on development of knowledge, skills, and techniques needed to function as health promotion specialist in public or private settings. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. HPRO 7950 - Applied Project in HPRO (1-6) Scholarly capstone experience in which students integrate and apply discipline-specific knowledge, skills, and insights in developing a product related to their professional goals as approved by a three-person project committee. PREREQUISITE: Completion of 18 credit hours in the program of study with a minimum graduate GPA of 3.00 and permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. HPRO 8732 - Random Cln Trial/HS (3) Provides thorough grounding in planning and executing randomized clinical trials pertaining to design, conducting, evaluation, and resource acquisition. PREREQUISITES: EDPR 7523, 7541, or permission of instructor. 
                     
                     NUTRITION (NUTR)
                     
                     In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics
                           courses:  NUTR 6001-6006. Special Topics NUTR. (3). Current topics in nutrition. May be repeated with change in topic. See online class
                        listings for topic.
                     
                     
                     
NUTR 6602 - Community Nutrition (3) (HMEC, CSED 6602). Nutritional problems and practices of diverse ethnic, age, and socioeconomic groups; educational skill development for intervention; local, regional, national, international agencies that address these nutritional needs. PREREQUISITE: CSED 2202 or permission of instructor. NUTR 6702 - Food Production Intern (3) (HMEC, CSED 6702). Supervised field experience in an area of food production and service preparation for ServSafe, a food safety and sanitation certification. NUTR 6722 - Catering Internship (3) (HMEC, CSED 6702). Supervised field experience in catering. PREREQUISITES: HMEC 3602, 4502 OR CSED 3602, 4502. NUTR 6902 - Study Tour/Foods/Nutr (1-3) (HMEC, CSED 6900). On-the scene knowledge about foods and nutrition. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. Only 6 hours applicable to degree. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. NUTR 7152 - Problems in NUTR (3) (EXSS/HPRO/PETE/SPRT 7152). Independent study and/or research project on selected problems and issues in exercise and sport science. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. NUTR 7182 - Environmental Nutrition (3) Study of the relationships between food, nutrition, and the environment with emphasis on sustainability. NUTR 7183 - Alternative/Complementary NUTR (3) Study of alternative and complementaryt nutrition practices with emphasis on evaluating effectiveness. NUTR 7205 - Nutrition Care Acute/Chronic I (3) (CSED 7205). Didactic and laboratory methods in the selection, performance, and interpretation of nutrition assessment techniques. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in Clinical Nutrition program or permission of instructor. NUTR 7206 - Lifetime Nutr & Hlth (3) Equips teachers with nutrition knowledge, skills, and application needed to promote health learning. PREREQUISITE: Admitted to TEP or licensed to teach. NUTR 7212 - Appl Nutr For Health (3) (HMEC, CSED 7212). Basic principles of nutrition and their applications to health and fitness. Not applicable to nutrition concentration. NUTR 7305 - Nutrition Care Acute/ChronicII (3) Integration of principles of anatomy, normal and pathophysiology, biochemistry, psychology, anthropology, epidemiology, and foods science with a survey of current nutritional, medical, and pharmacological treatments in the prevention, treatment, and management of diseases and disorders of the body systems. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in Clinical Nutrition program or permission of instructor. NUTR 7405 - Pharmacol Nutr Prof (3) Introduction to pharmaceutical sciences including general principles and phases of drug action, drug and nutrient interactions, pharmaceutical issues in nutrition support, supplement/herbal issues, and highlights of commonly prescribed medication that are used in medical condition which have a nutrition component. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in Clinical Nutrition program or permission of instructor. NUTR 7412 - Cellular Nutrition I (3) (CSED 7412). Generation, storage, and use of energy; metabolism of carbohydrate, protein, fat, and other macro and micronutrients; control of metabolic processes in normal, anabolic, and catabolic conditions. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in Clinical Nutrition program or permission of instructor. NUTR 7415 - Prof Issues Nutr (2) Survey of professional issues for clinical dietitians. Topics covered will include ethics, reimbursement, communicating nutrition information to the public, professional development and participation, entrepreneurship, marketing, and developing business plans. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in Clinical Nutrition program or permission of instructor. NUTR 7422 - Cellular Nutrition II (3) (CSED 7422). Cellular and subcellular metabolism of the micro-nutrients; digestion, absorption, transport, utilization, and excretion of vitamins and minerals; interrelationships of micro- and macronutrients; recent advances in micronutrient research. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in Clinical Nutrition program or permission of instructor. NUTR 7452 - Comparative Digestion/NUTR (3) Study of the vertebrate digestive system and the relations with diet, development, and health and disease. NUTR 7454 - Molecular Nutrition (3) Study of the cellular and molecular responses of the body to nutrients and the relations with health. NUTR 7481 - Clin Intern Nutr (1-9) (CSED 7481). Directed clinical experience (100 hours per credit) in health care settings serving children, adolescent, and adults in clinical and community settings, as well as administration of nutrition services. Emphasis on nutrition in growth and development, maintenance of wellness, and prevention and treatment of disease and disability. May be repeated for up to 9 hours of credit. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in Clinical Nutrition program. NUTR 7482 - Clinical Residency Nutr (1) Individualized clinical experience (120 hours) designed at an advanced level to enhance self-direction in learning and to develop advanced competence in area of individual interest. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in Clinical Nutrition program. NUTR 7522 - Clncl Nutritn/Food Servc Mgmt (3) (CSED 7522). Influence of leadership/management styles/practices on clinical nutrition/food service management effectiveness. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in Clinical Nutrition program or permission of instructor. NUTR 7710 - Humanitarian Nutrition (3) Study of local and global food/nutrition availability and accessibility. Food justice and environmental stewardship. NUTR 7712 - Cultural Nutrition and Foods (3) Overview of traditional food practices locally and globally to develop understanding of food values. NUTR 7722 - Sustainable Food System (3) Current issues related to sustainable food systems. Sustainable agriculture, health, hunger, environmental, economic, food safety, and political perspectives of relevant topics. NUTR 7800 - Internship in Environ NUTR (3-6) Directed field experience focusing on development of knowledge, skills, and techniques needed to function as an environmental nutrition specialist in public or private settings. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. NUTR 7850 - Seminar in Environmental NUTR (3) In depth review and presentation of topic focused on a current issue in environmental nutrition. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. NUTR 7950 - Applied Project in NUTR (1-6) Scholarly capstone experience in which students integrate and apply discipline-specific knowledge, skills, and insights in developing a product related to their professional goals as approved by a three-person project committee. PREREQUISITE: Completion of 18 credit hours in the program of study with a minimum graduate GPA of 3.00 and permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. NUTR 8412 - Cellular Nutrition I (3) (CSED 7412). Generation, storage, and use of energy; metabolism of carbohydrate, protein, fat, and other macro and micronutrients; control of metabolic processes in normal, anabolic, and catabolic conditions. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in Clinical Nutrition program or permission of instructor. NUTR 8422 - Cellular Nutrition II (3) (CSED 7422). Cellular and subcellular metabolism of the micro-nutrients; digestion, absorption, transport, utilization, and excretion of vitamins and minerals; interrelationships of micro- and macronutrients; recent advances in micronutrient research. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in Clinical Nutrition program or permission of instructor.
                     
                     PHYSICAL EDUCATION TEACHER EDUCATION (PETE)
                     
                     NOTE: Courses numbered 7001-7008 are restricted to post-bachelor's non-degree students
                        seeking certification in teaching physical education in Tennessee. They do not apply
                        toward master's degrees.
                     
                     
                     In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics
                           courses:  PETE 7902-7911. Special Topics PETE. (3). Important topics in Physical Education Teacher Education. May be repeated with a
                        change in topic; see online class listings for topics.
                     
                     
                     
PETE 7001 - App Sci Prin/PETE (3) Applied study of structure and function of human body, including mechanical and physiological principles of human movement, motor learning, and psychological and sociological aspects of physical education. PETE 7002 - Curriculum In PETE (3) Study of different curricular models and how to set up yearly and unit plans. PETE 7003 - Tchng Indv/Team Sports (3) Augments physical educators' skills, knowledge, and attitudes about individual and team sports and the techniques of teaching these activities to different age groups. PETE 7004 - Learner Assessmnt PETE (3) Provides students with a range of tools to assess school children in psychomotor, cognitive, affective, and fitness areas. PETE 7005 - Educational Gym&Dance (3) Prepares students to teach educational gymnastics and dance in school settings, as well as providing opportunities to develop individual skills. PETE 7006 - Instruction In PETE (3) Provides students with a range of instructional models that can be used in teaching physical education. PETE 7007 - Advanced Clinical Pract (3-9) Full-time, planned, and supervised experience in a physical education setting for K-12 certified students, the majority already placed in a school setting; supervision by HMSE faculty. COREQUISITE: PETE 7008. PETE 7008 - PETE Professional Seminar (1-3) Includes a range of professional issues and the development of a professional portfolio. COREQUISITE: PETE 7007. PETE 7133 - Current Readings PETE (3) Directed readings in area of physical education teacher education; materials selected to strengthen areas of study. PREREQUISITE: Permission of the instructor. PETE 7142 - Seminar In PETE (1-3) May be repeated when topic changes for a maximum of 3 credits. PETE 7152 - Special Problems In PETE (1-3) Independent study or research or both on selected physical education problems or issues, providing advanced knowledge and/or experiences. May be repeated for a maximum of 3 credit hours. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. PETE 7201 - Instructional Models/PETE (3) Study and reflection on models of instruction unique to physical education: large class sizes, open indoor and outdoor settings, and greater diversity of students and learning styles; emphasis on reading, discussion, and application based on understanding instructional strategies and various instructional models for physical education. PETE 7202 - Curriculum Models/PETE (3) Study and reflection on current curriculum models in physical education, including a study and critical analysis of developmentally appropriate curriculum specific to physical education. PETE 7203 - Assessmnt/Eval In PETE (3) Study and reflection on assessment and evaluation strategies used in physical education and to provide teachers and researchers with knowledge and skills necessary to conduct both process and product evaluation of physical activity. PETE 7204 - Instructional Supv/PETE (3) Study and reflection on models of instructional supervision in physical education, including systematic supervision, rationale, models, research, and clinical supervision and evaluation of teachers, to provide an empirical base for the development of the physical education systematic supervision model. PETE 7205 - Issues In Urban PETE (3) Considers the complex problems and unique possibilities that face physical education teachers and students in culturally diverse urban settings, examining different theoretical perspectives and practical approaches and their relationship to the success of children and youth in urban schools. PETE 7501 - Organizatn/Analys PETE (3) The teaching-learning process in physical education, focusing on teacher behaviors, student behaviors, academic learning time, teacher effectiveness as documented in both short and long term process-product studies, functional curriculum in the schools, descriptive analysis of coaches and athletes, and case study approaches. PETE 7950 - Applied Project in PETE (1-6) Scholarly capstone experience in which students integrate and apply discipline-specific knowledge, skills, and insights in developing a product related to their professional goals as approved by a three-person project committee. PREREQUISITE: Completion of 18 credit hours in the program of study with a minimum graduate GPA of 3.00 and permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given.
                     
                     SPORT COMMERCE (SPRT)
                     
                     In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics
                           courses: SLC 6102-11. Workshops in SLC. (1-6). (RECR 6705-15). Selected phases of sport and leisure commerce through group study, in-depth study
                        in area of interest and need for leaders in sport and leisure commerce. May be repeated
                        for credit when topic varies.  SLC 6902-11. Special Topics SLC. (1-3). (RECR 6905-15). Current topics in sport and leisure commerce. May be repeated with change in topic.
                        See online class listings for topic.  SPRT 7102-11. Special Topics SPRT. (1-6). Selected phases of sport commerce through group study, in-depth study in area of interest
                        and need for leaders in sport and leisure commerce. May be repeated for credit when
                        topic varies.
                     
                     
SLC 6001 - Sprt Sales/Rev Prod I (3) Analyzes and produces skills essential to revenue production and sales processes commonly found in the sport business. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. SLC 6002 - Sprt Sales/Rev Prod II (3) Focuses on producing skills essential to managing existing customer sales commonly found in sport business.  PREREQUISITE:  SLC 6001. SLC 6622 - Fan Behavior/Rivalry (3) Overview of factors that influence sport fan behavior including why people become fans of sport teams, influence of rivalry on fan behavior, and expected outcomes of fan behavior and rivalry. SLC 6800 - Adv Computer Apps in SPRT (3) Evolution, current application, and future potential of computers for sport commerce. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor
                     
                     
SPRT 7010 - Research&Data Analysis in SPRT (3) Overview of systematic, structured problem solving for decision making in sport management services. Overview of research concepts, ethical issues, and process. Includes introduction to qualitative and quantitative research designs, data collection, analysis, and dissemination of findings. SPRT 7031 - Sport Finance (3) Provides an understanding of the current financial status of the various sectors of the sport industry as well as the strategies frequently implemented by financial managers within the industry. SPRT 7141 - Experiential Learning Credit (1-9) A systematic process for evaluating and credentialing graduate-level learning gained in a variety of contexts. Students will provide documentation of graduate-level knowledge and skills garnered in nontraditional settings to expert faculty reviewers. SPRT 7142 - Seminar in SPRT (1-3) (RECR 7145, SLC 7142). May be repeated for a maximum of 3 credits. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. SPRT 7152 - Spec Problems in SPRT (1-3) (RECR 7155, SLC 7152). Independent study or research, or both, on selected sport commerce problems and issues. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. SPRT 7165 - Adv Pers SC Global City (3) (SLC 7165). Provides and understanding of synergies and disjunctures between the US and the UK sport and leisure marketplace; addresses cultural negotiations and promotional strategizing of corporations that attempt to secure a presence within multiple locales and the work of cultural intermediaries. PREREQUISITE: SPRT 7321 or permission of instructor. SPRT 7175 - Adv Mgmt Sprt Org Int Per (3) (SLC 7175). Provides a critical understanding of how management of sport and leisure organizations is carried out in a European context; students will gain critical knowledge of the global environment in which the US sport industry exists and the specific urban issues that frame the UK marketplace. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. SPRT 7321 - Theoretical Foundations (3) (SLC 7321). Influence of historical, philosophical, and social elements upon sport and leisure management policies, practices, and programs. SPRT 7331 - SPRT Promotional Culture (3) (SLC 7331). Examination of popular sport practices and representations as both the products and producers of particular social, historical, economic, technological, and political arrangements; contribution to the formation of contextually specific class, race, gender, and nation based identities and experiences. SPRT 7341 - Commrcl Rec/Travl Toursm (3) (SLC 7341). Survey of commercial leisure services with special emphasis placed on travel and tourism; sports and athletics, theaters, fitness centers, amusement and theme parks, aquatic areas, risk recreation, and historical areas, and the travel and tourism industry. SPRT 7351 - Gender/Sexuality in SPRT (3) (SLC 7201, 7351). Relationship between sport, leisure, and the dominant gender practices, experiences, and identities that structure everyday life within contemporary society. PREREQUISITE: SPRT 7321, 7331, or permission of instructor. SPRT 7361 - Race & Ethnicity in SPRT (3) (SLC 7361). Influence of sport and leisure on construction of differentiated racial and ethnic identities and experiences in contemporary American society, focusing on the way sport and leisure provide contexts in which dominant understandings of race and ethnicity are introduced, naturalized, and reproduced. PREREQUISITE: SPRT 7321, 7331, or permission of instructor. SPRT 7371 - Sprt Comrce in Global Mrkt (3) (SLC 7371). Cultural production, meaning, promotion, and consumption of sport and leisure across contrasting social, political, and economic systems; relative position of sport and leisure industries at cultural interstices in the emerging global village including the phenomena of cultural conflict, cultural resistance, and cultural imperialism. PREREQUISITE: SPRT 7321; and 7331 or permission of instructor. SPRT 7410 - Athletic Team Management (3) (SLC 7410). Managerial perspective for developing an athletic program. Includes ethics within coaching, developing a philosophy of coaching, developing a youth feeder program within an athletic program, building and supervising a staff, and working with various stakeholders including administrators, athletes, and boosters. SPRT 7420 - Sport Marketing (3) (SLC 7332, 7420). Basic market concepts with applications to sport and leisure organizations, including urban sport and leisure market consumer behavior, strategic market planning, marketing mix component integration, and market information management. PREREQUISITE: MKTG 3010 and 4901 (or equivalents); or MKTG 7060; or permission of instructor. SPRT 7440 - Promotions in Sport Commerce (3) (SLC 7440). A study of marketing communication principles and practices as they relate to sport and leisure from a theoretical, as well as practical perspective; special emphasis on building and maintaining effective media relations, advertising, sponsorship, licensing, public relations, sales, and after-marketing tactics. SPRT 7503 - Strat Mgmt Sprt Cmrce Org (3) (SLC 7503). Analysis of theoretical and practical issues relevant to management and administration of sport and leisure organizations; application of organizational analysis, managing change and external environments; understanding and managing power and organizational culture of sport commerce. SPRT 7600 - Readings in SPRT (3) (RECR 7135 or PHED 7133, SLC 7600). Directed readings in the area of sport and leisure; materials related to strengthen areas of study. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credits. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. SPRT 7603 - Admin of Athletics (3) (SLC 7603). Examination of sport within American higher education and related institutions. Designed to prepare students for a career in intercollegiate athletics management. Examination of athletic departments as well as the governing associations and related institutions that impact each other. Reviewing case studies from institutions of various institutional size, conferences, associations, and divisions, this course further provides students a comprehensive view of athletic administration procedures. SPRT 7605 - Practicum in SPRT (3) (RECR / SLC 7605). Culminating experience allows students to demonstrate knowledge and skills in an appropriate professional setting based on their training and skills. Should be conducted after all other course work is complete. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. SPRT 7650 - Legal Issues in Sport Commerce (3) (SLC 7650). Overview of the legal system?s role in the provision of sport products and services including legal system, constitutional law, negligence law, risk management, intentional torts, criminal acts, antitrust law, labor law, contract law, intellectual property law, and gender discrimination legislation/statutes within the sport industry. SPRT 7651 - Policy and Governance in Sport (3) Examination and analysis of development and enforcement of sport policies including those by local, national, and international sport organizations. Using the social institution of sport, topics examined include economic and social development, environmental responsibility, sport diplomacy, violence, criminal behavior, performance enhancing drugs, gambling, and development of sport. SPRT 7653 - Sport Areas & Facilities Mgmt (3) (SLC 7100, 7653). Advanced management and operation of leisure and sport areas and facilities, emphasizing comprehensive planning, design, maintenance, and inspection of areas and facilities. SPRT 7741 - Occupational Devp SPRT (3-6) Independent study on sport topics related to student?s occupational experiences and goals.  May be repeated.  Grades of S, U, or I will be given.  NOTE:  Sport Commerce majors may not use this course to fulfill degree requirements. PREREQUISITE: Permission of Advisor. SPRT 7800 - Adv Computer Apps in SPRT (3) (RECR / SLC 7800). Evolution, current application, and future potential of computers for sport commerce. SPRT 7950 - Applied Project in SPRT (1-6) (SLC 7950). Scholarly capstone experience in which students integrate and apply discipline-specific knowledge, skills, and insights in developing a product related to their professional goals as approved by a three-person project committee. PREREQUISITE: Completion of 18 credit hours in the program of study with a minimum graduate GPA of 3.00 and permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given.
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2015-2016 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 6/1/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/edu/hss.php
