http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/ccfa/jour.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                              	Degree Planning
                              	
                        JOUR Courses
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     JOURNALISM (JOUR)
                     
                     In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics
                           courses: JOUR 6800-09. Special Topics in Journalism. (3).  Intensive study of a single critical issue or current topic. Topics may vary. May
                        be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours.
                     
                     
                     JOUR 7200-09–8200-09. Special Topics in Journalism. (1-3).  Topics are varied and announced in online class listings.
                     
                     
                     
JOUR 6120 - Advanced Reporting (3) Writing and reporting news and in-depth feature stories about topics, such as government, courts, education, science, trends and community-wide issues; emphasis on using public records and national sources as well as key local sources. Students will create multimedia news projects and learn techniques of data reporting. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3120. JOUR 6140 - News Design (3) Advanced skills and techniques for design of printed media, including magazine and newspaper design. Emphasis on story and page design, graphics, headlines and other display typography. Approaches to print design presentation on digital platforms. JOUR 6301 - Event Management/HPRM & PR (3) (Same as HPRM 4301). Development, execution and evaluation of events that support strategic communication practices; emphasis on advertising and public relations tactics for non-profit, for profit and communitybased initiatives and organizations. PREREQUISITE: students must have completed 60 hours of coursework. JOUR 6328 - Strategic Adv Campaigns (3) Development of an integrative campaign and its execution in include all advertising and promotion applications. (Sp). JOUR 6421 - Crisis Comm in Public Relation (3) Explores theories and research related to public relations communication before, during and after a crisis; examines the fundamentals of organizational communication, crisis management and strategic planning. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 4410. JOUR 6431 - Music Promo/Public Relations (3) Examines publicity and promotion of artists and events within the music industry. Focuses on music journalism; advanced writing of collateral material, hosting events, planning, preparing and working events for artists in various capacities. PREREQUISITE: students must have successfully completed 75 credit hours. JOUR 6440 - Public Rel Campaigns (3) Application of theory, research data, and problem-solving techniques in development of comprehensive public relations strategies. JOUR 6500 - Web Publish I: html/CSS (3) Introduction of web design software of Dreamweaver; development of website projects; incorporation of target audience analysis and web usability; presentation of website projects from servers. JOUR 6526 - Advanced Digital Imaging (3) Advanced skills and photojournalism techniques for still photography and video; emphasis on action, sports, fashion, food, and portraits. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3526. JOUR 6550 - Web Publish II/: html/CSS (3) Creation and development of website projects; systematic training in writing html codes; focused learning of cascading style sheet (CSS); final production of a multimedia project. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 6500. JOUR 6560 - Interactive News (3) Creation and development of interactive news stories for web using ActionScript; integrating writing and reporting, designing and presenting audio, video, slideshows elements in production of a multimedia story. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 4500. JOUR 6629 - TV News Writing/Reporting (3) Gathering, writing and presentation of news for television. Students will shoot, write, edit, and voice packages for use in both the reporting and producing classes.PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3526, 4120. COREQUISITE: JOUR 4639. Permission of Department required for registration. JOUR 6639 - TV News Producing (3) Producing, writing, editing and using electronic equipment to assemble a television newscast; emphasis on performing the various tasks in a working newsroom. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3526, 4120. COREQUISITE: JOUR 4629. Permission of Department required for registration. JOUR 6700 - Media Law (3) Origin and development of legal principles affecting freedom of expression and provisions of laws of libel, slander, copyright, and other statutes limiting communication in fields of publishing and broadcasting. JOUR 6702 - Media, Diversity & Society (3) Advanced study of critical problems faced by mass media, with exploration of complexities that cause them. JOUR 6704 - Issues in Sport and Media (3) Examines the ongoing relationship of sports and media. Students will think more critically about the role of sports in the contemporary media landscape and vice-versa. JOUR 6708 - Mass Media Ethics              (3) Classical approaches to ethics presented with their application to the day-to-day considerations that journalism, public relations, and advertising professionals must face in working with employers, local publics, and a larger society dependent on a free flow of accurate information. JOUR 6712 - Mass Media & Cultures          (3) International communication, flow of news and propaganda; role in national development and international affairs; growth and impact of global journalism, television news, advertising, and public relations; comparison of media systems. JOUR 6920 - Data Visualization (3) Visual presentation of quantitative and spatial information. Examines the planning, design, and preparation of statistical graphs, charts, timelines, diagrams, and maps. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3900. JOUR 7000 - Media Writing/Editing          (3) Information gathering, writing, and editing skills necessary for any field within journalism and mass communication through lectures, discussions, and exercises that meld theory to technique; both laboratory writing and field assignments. JOUR 7002 - Pro Seminar (1) Self-paced, online orientation for incoming master's students, addressing skills and issues relevant to graduate studies in mass communication. Grades of S/U, IP will be given. JOUR 7015 - Advanced Media Writing (3) Designed to help students become more precise as well as versatile writers by diagnosing their writing, polishing their grammar and editing skills, and teaching them to write with clarity, cohesiveness, and conciseness. JOUR 7025 - Law Mass Communication         (3) Laws and regulations affecting mass media with attention to social and political forces that shape the law; exploration of First Amendment theories as well as the constitutional framework of the legal system; in-depth legal research in the student's selected area of interest. JOUR 7050 - Mass Comm Theory               (3) Key concepts and development of theories offered to explain operation and effects of mass communication media; multidiscipline overview of theories dealing with advertising, broadcasting, print, and public relations messages, media, and effects. JOUR 7075 - Mass Comm Res Methods          (3) Familiarization with content analysis, survey research, data analysis, and field studies as practiced by reporters, editors, and public relations decision makers; modern research techniques and class project using computer analysis. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 7050 JOUR 7100 - Entrepreneurial Media (3) Examines business models and new media tools that can encourage entrepreneurial thinking and planning in various fields of mass communication, as well as the theory and practices of traditional media management. Subjects will include assessment, organization and strategy, budgeting, decision-making, and other functions in advertising, news, and public relations. JOUR 7124 - Data Journalism (3) Advanced use of computer technology and investigative techniques to access, analyze, and develop database information in combination with traditional news reporting. JOUR 7125 - Research in Mass Comm. History (3) Examines the scholarship surrounding the major events, personalities, and issues that have shaped the development of mass media, with special emphasis on the history of American journalism/mass communication. JOUR 7300 - Mass Comm Literature           (3) Review of scholarly publications, books, periodicals, and databases in advertising, public relations, and news media. JOUR 7320 - Mass Media & Diversity         (3) Research and analysis of the relationship among mass media, women, and minorities. JOUR 7330 - Soc.Media&Comm.Engagement (3) This course looks at how to create campaigns and relationships that build organizational voice, serial story telling, and working with a community to encourage strong organization-public relationships. Will also look at content creation on multiple technologies and platforms, including both social and traditional media. Students will be exposed to a variety of case studies and community examples for analysis. JOUR 7340 - Advertising Management (3) How to articulate the strategic process of advertising management, to understand the factors influencing media management decisions, to strategically evaluate functioning advertising management strategies, and identify, formulate and defend advertising decisions grounded in media management issues. JOUR 7350 - Advanced Multimedia Reporting (3) Recent research findings in news reporting, writing and editing principles; practical experience in preparing finished news reports suitable for publication or dissemination in professional-level mass medium. JOUR 7375 - Integrated  Communication      (3) Integration of advertising, direct mail, public relations, and other strategic communication tools to produce a singular message that reaches every target audience segment; emphasis on application of theories to a particular case study. JOUR 7400 - PR Principles & Issues (3) Contemporary social trends, public relations roles and responsibilities, and applicable public relations theory. JOUR 7410 - Advanced Crisis Communication (3) Discussing all aspects of a crisis, including preparation, response, recovery, and mitigation. Focuses on communication from an organization and government to all potential publics. Will also discuss the impact of social media and potential from one-to-one communication. Course will include a multi-day crisis simulation. JOUR 7412 - Analytics and Evaluation (3) Research for strategic communicators, including focus groups and surveys. Basic qualitative and quantitative research skills will be discussed, including how to conduct and analyze focus groups, write survey questions, and perform basic statistical analyses. Gathering, understanding, and utilizing social media analytics for a variety of platforms will also be discussed. Students will become HootSuite-certified. JOUR 7414 - Audience Analysis&Segmentation (3) Understanding the variety of audiences and publics faced in strategic communication, including how to segment them properly, the importance of understanding a variety of audience characteristics, and how to use research to reach and comprehend the impact those audiences can have on strategic communication work. JOUR 7416 - Global Strategic Communication (3) This class looks at a wide variety of concepts from other courses, including writing, social media usage, research, management, and audience analysis, to understand them in a global context. There is also a critical discussion of strategic communication work, encouraging students to think about a broader variety of responses and reactions. This include both how to develop an integrated, holistic global communication program, and how to manage such a program. JOUR 7418 - Integrated Strategic Mgmt (3) A discussion of the place of public relations and advertising in organizational management decision making, the need for long-term strategic thinking, and the importance of supporting and contributing to organziational leadership. Will also include discussion of brand equity management and organizational leadership. JOUR 7420 - Strategic Publc Reltns Writing (3) Examination of strategies and forms of public relations communication, including traditional publicity, owned media, shared media, paid media and promoted media. JOUR 7422 - Writing for Strategic Media (3) Writing for all aspects of public relations and advertising, with a specific focus on writing for audio/visual and social media platforms, including translating one message across multiple technologies and platforms. Focus will be on writing in an active, engaging voice that aligns with the organization's mission and profile. JOUR 7440 - Orgnztnl Public Reltns         (3) How organizations maintain rapport with their publics and the mass media by effectively communicating long-range goals. JOUR 7450 - Public Relations Mgmt          (3) Development and management of public relations practice, department, or consultancy through study of planning and decision-making techniques; aspects of public relations practice that differ significantly from other enterprises; development of proposals and presentations; and management of financial and human resources. JOUR 7460 - Health News and Promotion (3) Advanced seminar that examines and critiques the literature on health communication in two specific areas: news about health and its impact on individuals, and health promotion campaigns. JOUR 7510 - Information Design (3) Use of visual comminication skills to present qualitative and quantitative data. Emphasis on effective communication, user experience and multimedia presentation. JOUR 7530 - Visual Media Theory & Practice (3) Theoretical foundations of visual communication, including Gestalt, semiotics, user interface design, and theories of practice. Application of skills to develop design projects. JOUR 7600 - Graduate Media Practicum (3) Work in practical assignments at a media organization under supervision of qualified practitioners or application of practical experience or research in a reviewed project. PREREQUISITE: Permission of the department's coordinator of graduate studies. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. JOUR 7650 - Journalism Startup Practicum (3) Students will engage in a semester-long project that will involve building a business plan, developing prototypes or products, creating content, and/or making advertising or public relations materials and strategies for media-related startups.  Project will be determined in consultation with instructor. PREREQUISITE:  permisssion of the department's coordinator of graduate studies. JOUR 7700 - Individual Research            (3) Projects on non-thesis related topics of special interest to the student, ending in a completed research article or report. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. JOUR 7800 - Directed Indiv Readings        (3) Preparation of literature review for master's thesis with extensive bodies of writing in topic areas. May be taken to prepare scholarly papers on subjects of individual interest. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. JOUR 7990 - Media Portfolio (2) Development of digital portfolio of professional and/or academic work and presentation. S/U JOUR 7996 - Thesis                         (1-6) Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. JOUR 7998 - Professional Project           (1-6) Completion of supervised professional project in student's area of expertise. Repeatable to maximum of 6 hours; only 3 hours applicable to degree. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. JOUR 8025 - Law Mass Communication         (3) Laws and regulations affecting mass media with attention to social and political forces that shape the law; exploration of First Amendment theories as well as the constitutional framework of the legal system; in-depth legal research in the student's selected area of interest. JOUR 8050 - Mass Comm Theory               (3) Key concepts and development of theories offered to explain operation and effects of mass communication media; multidiscipline overview of theories dealing with advertising, broadcasting, print, and public relations messages, media, and effects. JOUR 8075 - Mass Comm Res Methods          (3) Familiarization with content analysis, survey research, data analysis, and field studies as practiced by reporters, editors, and public relations decision makers; modern research techniques and class project using computer analysis. JOUR 8100 - Entrepreneurial Media (3) Examines business models and new media tools that can encourage entrepreneurial thinking and planning in various fields of mass communication, as well as the theory and practices of traditional media management. Subjects will include assessment, organization and strategy, budgeting, decision-making, and other functions in advertising, news, and public relations. JOUR 8125 - Research in Mass Comm. History (3) Examines the scholarship surrounding the major events, personalities, and issues that have shaped the development of mass media, with special emphasis on the history of American journalism/mass communication. JOUR 8300 - Mass Comm Literature           (3) Review of scholarly publications, books, periodicals, and databases in advertising, public relations, and news media. JOUR 8320 - Mass Media & Diversity         (3) Research and analysis of the relationship among mass media, women, and minorities. JOUR 8330 - Social Media Theory & Practice (3) Examination of research and theory on the impact of social and new media on journalism, public relations, and advertising, and applying these core concepts to the real-world use of digital tools. Active use of blogs, RSS feeds, Twitter, widgets, social bookmarking, mapping, and other Web 2.0 tools to produce and curate content and interact with other professionals in the field. JOUR 8340 - Adv Advertisng Practice        (3) Planning and design of advertising campaigns and tactics with primary emphasis on implementation. JOUR 8350 - Adv News Practices             (3) Recent research findings in news reporting, writing and editing principles; practical experience in preparing finished news reports suitable for publication or dissemination in professional-level mass medium. JOUR 8375 - Integrated Communication       (3) Integration of advertising, direct mail, public relations, and other strategic communication tools to produce a singular message that reaches every target audience segment; emphasis on application of theories to a particular case study. JOUR 8400 - PR Principles & Issues (3) Contemporary social trends, public relations roles and responsibilities, and applicable public relations theory. JOUR 8420 - Strategic Publc Reltns Writing (3) Examination of strategies and forms of public relations communication, including traditional publicity, owned media, shared media, paid media and promoted media. JOUR 8440 - Orgnztnl Public Reltns (3) How organizations maintain rapport with their publics and the mass media by effectively communicating long-range goals. JOUR 8450 - Public Relations Mgmt          (3) Development and management of public relations practice, department, or consultancy through study of planning and decision-making techniques; aspects of public relations practice that differ significantly from other enterprises; development of proposals and presentations; and management of financial and human resources. JOUR 8460 - Health News and Promotion (3) Advanced seminar that examines and critiques the literature on health communication in two specific areas: news about health and its impact on individuals, and health promotion campaigns. JOUR 8700 - Individual Research            (3) Projects on non-thesis related topics of special interest to the student, ending in a completed research article or report. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. JOUR 8800 - Directed Indiv Readings        (3) Preparation of literature review for master's thesis with extensive bodies of writing in topic areas. May be taken to prepare scholarly papers on subjects of individual interest. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given.
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/ccfa/jour.php
