http://www.memphis.edu/univcoll/graduate/mals.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			University College
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Undergraduate
                        Graduate
                        Resources
                        Online
                        Faculty & Staff
                     
                     
                        
                           Graduate
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Master of Arts in Liberal Studies
                                 Master of Professional Studies
                                 Certificate in Strategic Leadership
                                 Certificate in Liberal Studies
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	University College
                              	
                        
                              	Graduate
                              	
                        Master of Arts in Liberal Studies  
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Master of Arts in Liberal Studies (MALS)
                     
                     The Master of Arts in Liberal Studies (MALS) program at the University of Memphis
                        allows students to customize an interdisciplinary course of study. The program features
                        a flexible, adaptable curriculum that students can tailor for the broadest possible
                        application and personal enrichment. It is designed to sharpen the intellectual skills
                        necessary for lifelong learning—critical reading, scholarly writing, and the art of
                        interpersonal communication.
                     
                     
                     Program Details
                     
                     Because each MALS student follows a unique course of study, students work with academic
                        advisors to develop a curriculum proposal that satisfies both the interdisciplinary
                        intent of the MALS program and the Graduate School's requirements for graduation.
                     
                     
                     Every MALS student is required to complete and submit a Coordinated Study grid before being admitted to the program. The Coordinated Study grid is a planning document
                        that students use to identify the classes that will constitute their degree. Students
                        may combine courses from any two or more disciplines with guidance and approval from
                        an academic advisor. Review this example of a Coordinated Study grid completed by
                        a student in the field of Hospitality Management .
                     
                     
                     The Coordinated Study is comprised of twenty-one (21) credit hours selected by the
                        student from two or more disciplines. No more than 12 credit hours may come from any
                        single department. At least 12 hours of the Coordinated Study must be 7000-level courses.
                        Each student completes a Coordinated Study grid before starting the program, and that
                        grid serves as a working agreement between the student and University College. The
                        Coordinated Study grid must also identify at least three alternative courses that
                        could be taken in the event that any of the student's primary course selections are
                        not offered during the term of the student's enrollment.
                     
                     
                     At the time of admission to the MALS program, the Graduate Coordinator approves the
                        student's course of study as reflected on the Coordinated Study Grid that accompanies
                        the application essay. Students then enroll each semester in available courses from
                        the approved plan in a sequence of study . Within two weeks after the start of the final semester, students will submit a final
                        program proposal that reiterates the student's academic goals (if necessary, reflecting
                        any changes that have developed since admission) and identifies the Coordinated Study
                        courses actually completed. Major deviations from the original approved plan require
                        department pre-approval and will be addressed at the time of registration each semester.
                     
                     
                     Students enrolled in the MALS degree will complete at least 33 credit hours, successfully
                        present a Special Project (UNIV 7997), and pass an oral comprehensive examination.
                        The 33 hours include two segments: the MALS Core and the Coordinated Study.
                     
                     
                     The MALS Core is required of all students, and consists of twelve (12) pre-selected
                        credit hours:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        UNIV 7000 Foundations of Liberal Studies (3 hours)
                        
                        
                        UNIV 7100 Research in Interdisciplinary Studies (3 hours)
                        
                        
                        UNIV 7200 Liberal Studies Seminar (3 hours)
                        
                        
                        UNIV 7997 Special Project (3 hours)
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Students wishing to take UNIV 7997 must submit a proposal to the Graduate Coordinator
                        in the semester prior to taking the course to receive approval. Access our Proposal Approval Form and review deadlines and additional details.
                     
                     
                     Applying for Admission to the Program
                     
                     All applicants must have completed an undergraduate degree with a cumulative grade
                        point average of 2.75 on a 4.0 scale from an accredited college or university. Applicants
                        are selected on a competitive basis, so admission is not guaranteed to all applicants
                        who meet only the minimum requirements. Since all University College Graduate Programs
                        aim to produce lifelong learners and competitive members of the workforce, applicants'
                        submitted materials are scrutinized not only for content and but also for presentation,
                        organization, professionalism, and compliance with the program's specific application
                        instructions, which are listed below.
                     
                     
                     Step 1: Application for Admission to the Graduate School
                     
                     All students seeking to enter any of the University College graduate programs must
                        first apply to the Graduate School at the University of Memphis. The Graduate School accepts applications via electronic
                        submission. Please review their site for specific instructions and deadlines. The
                        MALS program does not require the GRE for admission. However, if you have taken the
                        GRE or any similar entrance exam, please submit your scores to the Graduate School.
                     
                     
                     Step 2: Application to the University College MALS Program
                     
                     As soon as possible after applying to the Graduate School, students should submit
                        the following to the University College Graduate Programs office:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Resumé: The applicant's resumé should include the applicant's employment history, academic
                           history, current contact information, and any additional relevant information, such
                           as professional skills, training, presentations, publications, etc.
                        
                        
                        Recommendation Letter: Applicants must submit at least one official letter of recommendation , preferably from a previous or current instructor who can attest to the student's
                           capacity for graduate work. All recommendation letters must meet University College
                           requirements or they will not be accepted.
                        
                        
                        Coordinated Study Grid: Applicants must submit a completed Coordinated Study Grid detailing the intended course of study.
                        
                        
                        Personal Essay: Applicants must submit a brief, original essay (approximately 500-600 words) that
                           addresses the following points:
                           
                           
                              
                              Why is the MALS program the best choice for pursuing your personal and intellectual
                                 goals?
                              
                              
                              How have your academic and professional experiences prepared you for this program?
                              
                              What is the theme of the program of study you want to pursue, and how will your Coordinated
                                 Study courses develop that theme?
                              
                              
                              Why do you think you are a good candidate for the MALS program?
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     To expedite processing, applicants are strongly advised to submit their materials
                        all at once rather than sending each document separately. Documents may be either
                        emailed to ucgrad@memphis.edu or mailed to the following address:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Graduate Programs Coordinator University College University of Memphis 201 Brister Hall Memphis, TN 38152-3440
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Step 3: The Interview
                     
                     One of the University College Graduate Program Coordinators may also require an interview
                        with the applicant. If deemed necessary, the interview will be scheduled as a component
                        of the application process prior to the acceptance. Interviews are conducted in person
                        or by video conference.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Only after all of these steps are completed will a final decision be made on the application.
                        Please note that the University College only has the authority to recommend or deny
                        admission. The Graduate School makes all final admission decisions and will notify
                        applicants once a decision has been reached.
                     
                     
                     Additional Information
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Advising Appointment
                                    
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Request Permit
                                    
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Financial Aid
                                    
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Graduate Assistantship
                                    
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Contact Us
                                    
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Graduate
                        
                           
                              
                              Master of Arts in Liberal Studies
                              Master of Professional Studies
                              Certificate in Strategic Leadership
                              Certificate in Liberal Studies
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Request More Information
                              Complete our online form for additional degree information. 
                           
                           
                              Online Appointments
                              Academic Advising is available in-person, by phone and web conference.
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/6/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/univcoll/graduate/mals.php
