http://www.memphis.edu/law/admissions/guide-to-applying.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Programs
                        Current Students
                        Faculty
                        Careers
                        Library
                     
                     
                        
                           Admissions
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 Guide to Applying
                                       
                                       Comprehensive Application Guide
                                       
                                       LSAT Prep
                                       
                                       Transfer Information
                                       
                                       TN Inst. for PreLaw (TIP)
                                       
                                       Part-Time Program
                                       
                                       Schedule a Visit
                                       
                                       Academic Curriculum
                                       
                                       Apply Now
                                       
                                       Check Application Status
                                    
                                 
                                 Stats, Facts and Profile
                                       Profile and Stats Overview
                                       Class Profile Factsheet
                                       2016 Viewbook
                                       Request a Viewbook
                                       Bragging Points
                                    
                                 
                                 Tuition, Scholarships, Financial Aid
                                       Overview of Costs
                                       Tuition Information
                                       Financial Aid
                                       Scholarships
                                       Tuition Payment
                                    
                                 
                                 Academic Curriculum
                                 Experiential Learning
                                 Life in Memphis
                                       Memphis-The City
                                       Neighborhoods
                                       Housing
                                       The Arts Scene
                                       Sports
                                       The Food Scene
                                       A Music Town
                                       Directions and Maps
                                    
                                 
                                 Recruiting Calendar
                                 Schedule a Visit
                                 Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
                                       FAQ List
                                       Application Information
                                       LSAT
                                       Notification and Acceptance
                                       Curriculum
                                       City of Memphis
                                    
                                 
                                 Admitted Student Information
                                 Law Bookstore
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	School of Law 
                              	
                        
                              	Admissions
                              	
                        Guide to Applying 
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     GUIDE TO APPLYING
                     
                     The University of Memphis School of Law welcomes applications for admission to its
                        2017 entering class. The application is currently open, and there is no application
                        fee. The priority application deadline is March 15th. Apply here.
                     
                     A significant factor in the admission decision process is the admission index, which
                        is based on the undergraduate grade point average and the LSAT score. The undergraduate
                        grade point average used in the admission index is the cumulative grade point average
                        found on the Credential Assembly Service (CAS) report produced by LSAC. Also considered
                        are factors deemed to be predictive of success in law school as set forth in the application,
                        personal statement, letters of recommendation, and the applicant's CAS report. Such
                        factors may include, but are not limited to overall academic record, co-curricular
                        activities, community involvement, employment, and other life experiences.
                     
                     
                     Applicants can access our application at LSAC (Law School Admission Council). Applicants will be sent an email indicating their
                        applications have been received. Applicants will also receive instructions on how
                        view the status of their applications. An email will be sent notifying applicants
                        their files are complete.
                     
                     
                     It is the applicant's responsibility to take the necessary steps to ensure that all
                        supporting documents required to complete the application are postmarked on or before
                        the March 15th deadline. Failure to complete the application by the deadline may reduce
                        the applicant's chance for admission. Applicants are encouraged to begin the application
                        process and submit all the required documents as early as possible. February and June
                        LSAT scores will be reviewed for fall admission as long as the law school application
                        and fee is submitted by March 15th.
                     
                     
                     The application components are:
                     
                     □  Application (Required)
                     
                     The application may be accessed through LSAC. Be sure to complete all questions accurately.
                        Include your name and LSAC account number on any addenda. The priority application
                        deadline is March 15th.
                     
                     
                     □  Credential Assembly Service (CAS) (Required)
                     
                     Applicants for the 2017 entering class must have an LSAT score that is current and
                        taken between June 2012 and February 2017. LSAC will not release a CAS report until
                        they receive an original transcript from every undergraduate institution you have
                        attended, including summer sessions and study abroad programs. It is the applicant's
                        responsibility to monitor the status of his/her LSAC account. Once your application
                        is complete, the admissions office will send a completion status e-mail. Applicants
                        can also monitor their Memphis application status on-line through LSAC.
                     
                     
                     □  Personal Statement (Required)
                     
                     Each applicant is required to submit a personal statement. This statement provides
                        you the opportunity to describe your background and any unique experiences, characteristics
                        or circumstances you want the admissions committee to consider. You should explain
                        your desire to study law, why you believe you will be a successful law student, and
                        what you plan to do with your law degree. You are encouraged to explain your interest
                        in attending our law school and may discuss any information not otherwise apparent
                        from your application, including family members who are graduates of the University
                        of Memphis School of Law. Limit your personal statement to no more than 1,000 words.
                        NOTE: If you want to include relevant information explaining a low undergraduate grade
                        point average or low LSAT score, we encourage you to submit an addendum separate from
                        your personal statement.
                     
                     
                     □  Admonitory Action Explanation (Required if Applicable)
                     
                     Applicants must answer questions in the Admonitory Action section of the application.
                        If an applicant answers "yes" to any of the questions, he/she should provide an addendum
                        detailing the date and location of the event and an explanation of what occurred.
                        Applicants are encouraged to include related court documents.
                     
                     
                     □  Letters of Recommendation/Evaluations (optional)
                     
                     Applicants are encouraged to submit up to three letters of recommendation addressing
                        their potential for academic success. When possible, letters should come from professors
                        if you are currently in college or have recently graduated. The letters should be
                        sent to LSAC to be included with your CAS report. If a file is complete by March 15th,
                        file review will not be delayed if letters have not been received. For more information
                        visit the LSAC Letters of Recommendation webpage.
                     
                     
                     □  Non-Resident Statement (Required for Out-of-State Applicants)
                     
                     This statement is required for out-of-state applicants. Non-resident applicants must
                        submit an additional statement detailing their interest and reason(s) for wanting
                        to attend the University of Memphis. Applicants with familial connections to the Mid-South
                        are encouraged to disclose this information. Applicants are discouraged from listing
                        pop-culture references; e.g., Elvis and Memphis Blues, etc.
                     
                     
                     □ TIP Statement (Required for all TIP applicants)
                     
                     Applicants interested in being considered for the Tennessee Institute for Pre-Law
                        Program are required to submit a TIP statement. The statement should address how they
                        have contributed to the overall diversity and/or how they might have been economically
                        disadvantaged. The TIP Program is an alternative admission summer program for Tennessee
                        and border county residents from diverse backgrounds who are not admitted through
                        the regular admissions process, but who show potential for the study of law.
                     
                     
                     □  Financial Aid and Scholarships
                     
                     Applicants are encouraged to complete the application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)
                        by March 15th. Memphis Law's code is 003509. Most entering scholarships are awarded
                        based on the merits of the applicant's credentials. Some scholarships have special
                        requirements. For those scholarships, please review the scholarship list for first-year
                        students.
                     
                     
                     □  Decision Timeline (September – April)
                     
                     Our online application is available through LSAC. Applicants applying to the University
                        of Memphis School of Law will receive an email with a link to our website and a code
                        to establish an account to check the status of their application. Hence forth, the
                        applicant can check their application status on-line. Applicants will also receive
                        an email once the application is complete. Once a decision is rendered, the online
                        status will read: decision rendered. Final decisions are mailed to the applicants' current
                        address. Most decisions are made between January and April.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Admissions
                        
                           
                              
                              
                              Guide to Applying
                                    
                                    Comprehensive Application Guide
                                    
                                    LSAT Prep
                                    
                                    Transfer Information
                                    
                                    TN Inst. for PreLaw (TIP)
                                    
                                    Part-Time Program
                                    
                                    Schedule a Visit
                                    
                                    Academic Curriculum
                                    
                                    Apply Now
                                    
                                    Check Application Status
                                 
                              
                              Stats, Facts and Profile
                                    Profile and Stats Overview
                                    Class Profile Factsheet
                                    2016 Viewbook
                                    Request a Viewbook
                                    Bragging Points
                                 
                              
                              Tuition, Scholarships, Financial Aid
                                    Overview of Costs
                                    Tuition Information
                                    Financial Aid
                                    Scholarships
                                    Tuition Payment
                                 
                              
                              Academic Curriculum
                              Experiential Learning
                              Life in Memphis
                                    Memphis-The City
                                    Neighborhoods
                                    Housing
                                    The Arts Scene
                                    Sports
                                    The Food Scene
                                    A Music Town
                                    Directions and Maps
                                 
                              
                              Recruiting Calendar
                              Schedule a Visit
                              Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
                                    FAQ List
                                    Application Information
                                    LSAT
                                    Notification and Acceptance
                                    Curriculum
                                    City of Memphis
                                 
                              
                              Admitted Student Information
                              Law Bookstore
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply to Memphis Law
                              
                           
                           
                              News & Events
                              
                           
                           
                              Alumni & Support
                              
                           
                           
                              ABA Required Disclosures
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 11/3/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/law/admissions/guide-to-applying.php
