http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/nurs.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                              	Degree Planning
                              	
                        NURS Courses
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     NURSING (NURS)
                     
                     In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics
                           courses: NURS 7810-7820. Special Topics in Nursing. (3).  Topics are varied and announced in online course listings.
                     
                     
                     
NURS 6110 - Rsrch/Evd Based Prctice (3) Overview of nursing research: components of research, critiques of existing studies, emphasis on interpretation and applications of research findings. PREREQUISITE: Admission to MSN program. NURS 6120 - Contempry Issues/Trends        (3) Factors that influence nursing and health care; promotes integration and synthesis of knowledge from previous nursing and general education courses to explore societal and political components that affect delivery of health care. PREREQUISITE: Admission to MSN program. NURS 6317 - Population Focused Nursing/RNs (3) Overview of community based health care delivery system at local, state, and national levels; theories and principles of nursing care of communities and aggregrates in public health and home health care settings; expands role of RN student to coordinator of care. May be repeated once. PREREQUISITE: NURS 3108, 3201, 3410, 3420, and unencumbered current RN license. NURS 6326 - Global Perspectives on Nursing (3) This study abroad program is designed for undergraduate and graduate students interested in increasing their understanding of international health care issues as they relate to nursing. NURS 7000 - Theoretical Foundations        (3) Exploration of theory development in nursing; analysis of selected nursing and related theories; relevance of theory to practice, education, research, and administration; includes process of theory development. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. NURS 7001 - Health Care Policy             (3) Primary focus on analysis of health-care systems; examines public and private health-care delivery systems; explores future challenges and processes to improve systems. PREREQUISITE: Admission to MSN program or permission of instructor. NURS 7002 - Adv Nursing Research           (3) (7016). Systematic examination and application of the research process; critically examines concept of evidenced-based practice and its application to nursing. PREREQUISITE: Admission to MSN program or permission of instructor. NURS 7003 - Adv Role Development           (3) (7050). Provides an in-depth understanding of the legal, historical, political, social, and ethical aspects of advanced nursing; examines traditional and emerging roles for advanced nursing. PREREQUISITE: Admission to MSN program or permission of instructor NURS 7007 - Adv Role Dev for Nurse Execs (3) Provides an in-depth understanding of the legal, historical, political, social, and ethical aspects of advanced nursing; examines traditional and emerging roles for advanced nursing; and critically review theories and conceptual models from nursing for use in nurse executive roles. PREREQUISITE: Admission to Executive Leadership MSN program or permission of instructor. NURS 7008 - Global Persp Nurs/Hlth Policy (3) This study abroad program is designed for graduate nursing students interested in increasing their understanding of international health care issues as they relate to nursing practice and global health policy.  The course intent is to braoden the student's worldview and global perspective of health care and nursing.  PREREQUISITE:  Admission to an approved graduate school of nursing or permission of the faculty. NURS 7101 - Adv Health Assessment          (3) Focuses on development of diagnostic reasoning skills, emphasizing application of these skills in the presence of abnormal findings uncovered during physical examination of individuals across the lifespan. PREREQUISITE: Undergraduate course in health assessment; admission to MSN Advanced Practice program COREQUISITE: NURS 7102. NURS 7102 - Adv Health Assmt/Clinic        (1) This clinical course emphasizes application of techniques to perform targeted and comprehensive advanced health assessment of the adult client; develops synthesis, critical analysis, interpretation of physical assessment data, diagnostic reasoning, and clinical judgment. Students must achieve a grade of "B" or better to progress. COREQUISITE NURS 7101 NURS 7103 - Adv Pathophysiology            (3) (7013). Exploration of theoretical foundations of phenomena that alter health status across the life span; provides foundation for practitioner courses related to diagnosis and treatment of disease processes. PREREQUISITE: Undergraduate course in pathophysiology. PREREQUISITE: Admission to MSN program or permission of instructor. NURS 7104 - Adv Pharmacology               (3) Focus on pharmacological actions of drugs commonly prescribed in primary care settings; emphasizes pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic principles of drugs, side effects, therapeutic dosages, and drug interactions; integrates legal, ethical, and economic factors of prescriptive authority. PREREQUISITE: Undergraduate pharmacology course; admission to MSN Advanced Practice. PREREQUISITE NURS 7103 or permission of instructor. NURS 7110 - Independent Study (1-3) Independent study of research problems or directed readings and activities in selected area of nursing administration, nursing education, nursing informatics, advanced practice nursing. PREREQUISITE:  Permission of Associate Dean, Graduate Nursing Programs NURS 7204 - Curriculum Design & Ed Theory (3) The course introduces the student to traditional and contemporary considerations for curriculum planning and design as applied to nursing education.  An emphasis is placed on curriculum designs and explores major research based theories of adult and nursing education.  These concepts will be applied to a variety of settings and/or levels of education. PREREQUISITE:  Admission to MSN Nursing Education or permission of instructor. NURS 7205 - Evaluation Mthds in NursingEdu (3) Pre-requisite:  NURS 7204 NURS 7207 - Clinical Focus Practicum (2) Use of theory, clinical concepts, and nursing research in delivery of care to specific patient populations from a social, cultural, psychological, physical, spiritual, and economic perspective for the advanced practice nurse. Students must achieve a grade of "B" or better to progress. PREREQUISITE: NURS 7003 NURS 7209 - Nursing Education Practicum (4) Integrates theory in a reality context; provides opportunities to participate in all phases of teaching and to experiment with different teaching methods. Students must achieve a grade of "B" or better to progress. PREREQUISITE: NURS 7003 NURS 7301 - Nursing Admin I                (3) (7330). Comprehensive analysis of concepts required for effective performance of the nurse executive's role in organizations with varied environments; management as a sub-function of the total organization; systems interacting with objectives, planning, and control; organizational designs and interpersonal relationships. PREREQUISITES: Admission to MSN Administration program or permission of instructor. NURS 7302 - Nursing Admin II               (3) (7331). Synthesis of concepts used for effective performance of nurse executive's role; analyzes use of human and financial resources and organizational development with application to nursing executive positions; includes theories and concepts related to intra- and entrepreneurial principles and skills for advanced nursing role; examines role of nurse executive as consultant to health-care organizations. PREREQUISITE: NURS 7301. NURS 7303 - Health Care Finance            (3) Introduction to accounting and financial management, focusing on health-care industry; includes understanding financial reports, cost behavior and profit analysis, cost allocation, pricing and servicing decisions, managerial accounting, planning and budgeting, time value analysis, and financial risk. PREREQUISITE: Admission to Executive Leadership MSN program or permission of instructor. NURS 7304 - Human Resources Mgmt           (3) Personnel and human resource issues, including labor management in nursing and health care settings. NURS 7305 - Quality Management             (3) (7334). Analysis of quality management system models in nursing and health care, including problem and documentation, development of strategies for improvement, intervention and evaluation; focus on quality improvement process in relation to organizational outcomes. PREREQUISITE: NURS 7301 or permission of instructor. NURS 7307 - Nursing Management Practicum (2) This practicum experience integrates theory into a reality context of the nurse manager's role.  Students will participate in various functions and phases of the nurse manager role.  Students, faculty, and preceptors will evaluate the student's strengths and weaknesses related to the skills and competencies of nursing management.  Students will be required to complete a minimum of 120 clinical hours during the course.  Students must achieve a grade of "B" or better to progress. PREREQUISITES:  NURS 7000, NURS 7001, NURS 7002, NURS 7003, NURS 7301, NURS 7302, NURS 7303, NURS 7304. Co-requisite or pre-requisite:  NURS 7305 NURS 7309 - Nursing Admin Pract            (4) Integrates theory into reality context of the administrator's role; provides opportunities to participate in all phases of the executive role in different administrative settings. Students must achieve a grade of "B" or better to progress. PREREQUISITE: NURS 7003 NURS 7332 - Rsrce Alloc Nsg/Hlth Care      (3) Assesses fiscal environment of health-care organizations: critiques financial management processes; analyzes costing and budgeting; compares financial statement analysis, cost analysis, resource planning, and resource control; evaluates management of health-care organizations' financial resources. PREREQUISITES: All core courses; NURS 7331, 7334; ACCT 7000, 7110. NURS 7401 - Intro Healthcare Informatics (3) Overview of nursing informatics and theoretical foundation for information management within health-care setting; explores impact of automated data management through advances in information technology, health-care information systems, and tele-health. NURS 7402 - Health Care Info Sys & Tech (3) Introduces concepts upon which health-care information systems are developed, implemented, and maintained; addresses operating systems, networking concepts, security issues, workstation design, and evaluation related to the health-care environment. NURS 7403 - Proj Mgt Dec-Anlys HC Info Sys (3) Provides knowledge and skills to analyze and design health-care information systems; discusses informatic models, conceptual frameworks, and practice activities. PREREQUISITE: NURS 7407 NURS 7404 - Proj Mgt Imp & Eval HC Inf Sys (3) Provides advanced knowledge and skills for implementing and evaluating health-care information systems in practice; emphasizes emerging technologies. PREREQUISITE: NURS 7409 NURS 7405 - Hlth Care Data Analysis (2) Presents concepts related to complex data analysis in health-care environment; covers principles of data collection, organization, and statistical analysis and interpretation; provides opportunity to review complex applications for data mining and reporting within the health-care environment. NURS 7407 - Informatics Applications I (2) Practicum builds upon concepts and technology introduced in related informatics course work to provide experiences in informatics applications in health-care settings. NURS 7409 - Informatics Applications II (2) Provides additional experiences in informatics applications in health-care settings; students will explore a variety of informatics applications and identify specific informatics applications based on their practice interests. NURS 7410 - Informatics Practicum (4) PREREQUISITE: NURS 7003 NURS 7505 - Advanced Adult Health Nursing (3) Pre- or Co-Requisites:  NURS 7101, 7102, 7103, 7104 NURS 7515 - Adv Psych/Mentl Health Nursing (3) Pre-Requisites:  NURS 7101, 7102, 7103, 7104 NURS 7545 - Adv Womens Hlth/Perinatal Nurs (3) Pre- or Co-Requisites:  NURS 7101, 7102, 7103, 7104 NURS 7601 - Family Nurse Practnr I         (3) (7020). Focuses on advanced practice nursing and health-care management of women in diverse populations; includes biopsychosocial interactions affecting women throughout the lifespan. PREREQUISITE: Admission to Family Nurse Practitioner program; NURS 7101, 7102, 7103; COREQUISITE: NURS 7602. NURS 7602 - Family Nurs Prac I/Clin        (2) (7029). Focuses on delivery of advanced nursing care to women; employs various clinical settings with diverse populations for clinical practice. Students must achieve a grade of "B" or better to progress. COREQUISITE: NURS 7601. PREREQUISITE: NURS 7003 NURS 7603 - Family Nurs Practnr II         (3) (7030). Focuses on advanced practice nursing and health-care management of adults and older adults in diverse populations; includes developmental, physiological, pathological, and psychosocial changes relative to health maintenance, acute and chronic illnesses, and life transitions. PREREQUISITE: Admission to Family Nurse Practitioner program; NURS 7101, 7102, 7103; PREREQUISITE/COREQUISITE: NURS 7104. NURS 7604 - Family Nurs Pract II/CLN (4) Provides opportunities to deliver advanced nursing care to adults and older adults; student completes health assessments of adults and older adults and develops comprehensive plans of care. Students must achieve a grade of "B" or better to progress. COREQUISITE: NURS 7603. PREREQUISITE: NURS 7003 NURS 7605 - Family Nurs Pract III          (3) (7039). Focuses on advanced practice nursing and health-care management of children and adolescents; includes developmental, physiological, pathological, and psychosocial changes relative to health maintenance, acute and chronic illnesses, and developmental transitions within the family context. PREREQUISITE: Admission to Family Nurse Practitioner program; NURS 7101, 7102, 7103; PREREQUISITE/COREQUISITE: NURS 7104. NURS 7606 - Family Nurs Prac III Cln (2) Provides opportunities to deliver advanced nursing care to children and adolescents in families and communities; employs various primary care settings for clinical practice in collaboration with nursing faculty and clinical preceptors. Students must achieve a grade of "B" or better to progress. COREQUISITE: NURS 7605. PREREQUISITE: NURS 7003 NURS 7609 - FNP Practicum (4) Supervised full-time advanced clinical practice in a primary care setting with immersion into the role of Family Nurse Practitioner; allows for role synthesis and application of concepts in the practice setting. Student must achieve a "B" or better to progress. PREREQUISITES:  NURS 7000, 7002, 7003, 7101, 7102, 7103, 7104, 7601, 7602, 7603, 7604, 7605, 7606. NURS 7990 as prerequisite or co-requisite. NURS 7633 - Pediatric Nurs II              (3) Focuses on application of educational theory and principles to develop the leadership role of the professional nurse educator in pediatric settings. NURS 7635 - Advanced Pediatric Nursing (3) This course focuses on health maintenance and health promotion for children and their families experiencing both acute and chronic illness/disabilities are addressed.
Pre- or Co-Requisites: NURS 7000,7101, 7102, 7103, 7104 NURS 7901 - Comm/Rel Bldg Nurse Exec (3) Imparts skills to effectively communicate, manage relationships, influence bahaviors, support diversity, implement shared decision making, support community involvement, manage medical-staff relations, and support academic relations. COREQUISITE: NURS 7902. PREREQUISITE: Admission to Executive Leadership MSN program or permission of instructor. NURS 7902 - Dev Organizational Ldrshp (3) Creates nurse executive skills including foundational thinking skills, personal journey disciplines, systems thinking, succession planning, and change management. PREREQUISITE: Admission to Executive Leadership MSN program or permission of instructor. NURS 7903 - Accountability,Advocacy,Ethics (3) Teaches skills to promote accountability, develop career planning paths, integrate high ethics into organizational culture, mentor others in using evidence-based management practices, advocate patient care as organization core, ensure nursing involvement in organizational decisions, and promote participation in professional organization(s). PREREQUISITES: admission to Executive Leadership MSN program or permission of instructor. NURS 7904 - Fin/Hum Rsrcs Patient Care (3) Imparts skills required to articulate business models for health-care organizations, utilize accounting principles, analyze financial statements, manage financial resources by developing business plans, establish accurate charging mechanisms, and educate others on financial implications of patient care decisions. PREREQUISITES: ACCT 7080 AND NURS 7303 or permission of instructor. NURS 7905 - Improving Patient Care Del (3) Creates skills to interpret clinical practice knowledge; analyze delivery models/work designs; explain payer mix, CMI, and benchmark data; and effectively represent nursing to the organization's governing body. PREREQUISITES: Admission to Executive Leadership MSN program or permission of instructor. COREQUISITE: NURS 7904. NURS 7907 - Evidenc-Based Ldrshp Pract (3) Creates skills to implement stratgeic management; analyze marketing opportunities; utilize hospital databases, decision support, and expert system programs to plan operational processes and systems; evaluate utility of information systems; involve nursing in planning, designing, choosing, and implementing information systems; and analyze benchmarking, financial, and occupational data. PREREQUISITES: Admission to Executive Leadership MSN program or permission of instructor. NURS 7909 - Nurse Executive Practicum (4) Student collaborates with Nurse Executive mentor to enhance competency in communication/relationship building, knowledge of health-care environment, leadership, professionalism, and business skills. Student must achieve a "B" or better to progress. PREREQUISITES: NURS 7001, 7002, 7007, 7901, 7903, 7904, 7905, 7907, ACCT 7080. COREQUISITE: NURS 7990 or permission of instructor. NURS 7990 - Scholarly Synthesis            (3) As a culminating experience, this course provides the student with the opportunity to complete a scholarly project that demonstrates a synthesis of knowledge acquired in graduate study. The student will write a state of the science paper using a prescribed methodology for literature review and submit the paper as a manuscript for publication. The paper topic and content must be approved by a supervising faculty member and course coordinator. PREREQUISITE: Course to be taken within the last two semesters of the program. NURS 7996 - Thesis                         (1-3) Directed study in the completion of the thesis. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor.  Grades of S, U, or IP will be given.
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/nurs.php
