http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/cas/phys.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                              	Degree Planning
                              	
                        PHYS Courses
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     PHYSICS AND MATERIAL SCIENCE (PHYS)
                     
                     In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics
                           courses: PHYS 6000-09. Special Topics in Physics. (3). Selected topics of current interest in physics. Topics are varied and announced in
                        online class listings. PHYS 7050-59. Special Topics in Advanced Physics. (3-6). Selected topics in advanced physics. Topics are varied and announced in online class
                        listings.
                     
                     
                     
PHYS 6020 - Soft Matter/Biological Physics (3) Random walks, diffusion, entropic forces, colloidal suspensions, polymers, self-assemblies, lipid membranes, transitions in biomolecules, molecular machines in biomembranes. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2120 and CHEM 1120. PHYS 6021 - App Radiation Physics          (3) Applied radiation and radioactivity; types of radiation, radiation management, interaction with matter, and biological effects; radiation safety aspects emphasized. PREREQUISITES: PHYS 2120 or 2020 and MATH 1910. PHYS 6040 - Medical Physics                (3) Physics of sensory, respiratory, and circulatory systems; physical basis of radiology and nuclear medicine. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2120 or both PHYS 2020 and MATH 1910. PHYS 6050 - Astrophysics I                 (3) Principles of physics applied to the objects of the universe, e.g., planets, sun, stars, etc. Also includes and introduction to electromagnetic radiation and telescopes. Recommended for science and engineering majors interested in astronomy. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2120 or PHYS 2520. PHYS 6051 - Astrophysics II                (3) Principles of physics applied to star birth and death, black holes and neutron stars, galaxies and quasars, the beginning and evolution of the universe. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 3051. PHYS 6110 - Nuclear Physics                (3) Properties of atomic nuclei; radioactive transitions; alpha, beta, and gamma decay; binding energy, nuclear forces, and nuclear models. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 3010. PHYS 6211 - Waves and Optics (3) Mathematical description of vibrations and waves with application to sound and electromagnetic waves; geometrical optics; interference and diffraction; holography; introduction to laser physics and photonics. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2120 and PHYS 3011. PHYS 6410 - Intro Quantum Theory           (3) Historical background of quantum theory, mathematical formalism of quantum mechanics, solutions of Schrodinger equation for bound and scattering states in one dimension, harmonic oscillator, angular momentum, and introduction to atomic and molecular structures. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 3010, PHYS 3011, PHYS 3211. PHYS 6420 - Intro Computational Physics (3) Introduction to computer-based techniques for modeling physical systems. Computational methods are used to solve problems in mechanics, electricity and magnetism, and quantum mechanics. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 3010 and PHYS 3011. PHYS 6510 - Thermal and Statistical Phys (3) Introduction to thermodynamics and statistical mechanics, includes topics such as temperature, work, heat, entropy, thermodynamic potentials, ideal gases, phase transitions, classical and quantum ensembles, and partition functions. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2120 and PHYS 3011. PHYS 6610 - Solid State Physics            (3) Crystal structures, crystal bonding, x-ray diffraction, lattice vibrations and phonons, free and nearly-free electron models, energy bands of insulators, metals, and semiconductors. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 4410 PHYS 6620 - Device Physics and Microfabric (3) Semiconductor devices and microfabrication; crystal properties and growth of semiconductors, energy bands and charge carriers, p-n junction, field-effect transistors, bipolar transistors, optoelectronic devices, power devices, power devices, and fundamentals of microfabrication, including vacuum technology and thin film deposition techniques. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 3211, PHYS 3010, PHYS 3011. PHYS 6720 - Materials Physics (3) Basic concepts in materials science emphasizing relationships between microscopic structure and properties; crystallography and symmetries, thermodynamics of material, phase equilibria, structure of ceramics and polymers, mechanical properties of material, kinetics of phase transformations in materials. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 3010. PHYS 6820 - Materials Physics Lab (3) Synthesis of various materials and characterizations of their structure and properties using a variety of experimental tools; relationships between structure of materials and their properties are emphasized. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 3010. PHYS 7060 - Indiv Study Adv Physics (1-3) Independent investigation of an area of advanced physics under supervision of a Physics faculty member. Written report required. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. PHYS 7080 - Teaching Skills Ga             (3) Overview of teaching techniques and classroom management for physics laboratory instructors; includes practical demonstrations in laboratory physics. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 credit hours.  NOTE: Physics majors may not use this course to fulfill degree requirements. PHYS 7090 - Prof Development Wkshp         (3) Presentations by Physics faculty and students on current research topic; oral presentation required based on research performed under the supervision of a faculty member. NOTE: Physics majors may not use this course to fulfill degree requirements. PHYS 7100 - Classical Mechanics            (3) Variational principles, Lagrangians and Hamiltonians, Poisson brackets, canonical transformations, Hamilton-Jacobi theory, and chaos in Hamiltonian systems. PHYS 7200 - Quantum Mechanics I            (3) Fundamentals of Hilbert Space, simple quantum systems and relations to classical mechanics, symmetry in quantum mechanics, interaction with electromagnetic fields, introduction to perturbation methods and scattering theory. PHYS 7201 - Quantum Mechanics II           (3) Continuation of PHYS 7200; scattering theory, quantum dynamics, spin, and perturbation methods. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 7200. PHYS 7300 - Electrodynamics                (3) Electrostatics, multipole expansion, magnetostatics, electrodynamics, electromagnetics waves. PHYS 7375 - Methods Math Physics (3) (Same as MATH 7375). Finite dimensional vector spaces, matrices, tensors, vector fields, function spaces, differential and integral operators, transform theory, partial differential equations. PREREQUISITE: Background in ordinary differential equations and linear algebra. PHYS 7376 - Methods Math Physics II        (3) (Same as MATH 7376, ESCI 7376). Continuation of PHYS 7375. Complex variable theory, asymptotic expansions, special functions, calculus of variations, additional topics on matrices and operators, topics in non-linear analysis. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 7375. PHYS 7385 - Methods/Comput Physics         (3) Solution of problems in macroscopic and atomic-level problems in physics by numerical analysis and computer simulation, with emphasis on the accuracy and efficiency of large-scale computations and the physical interpretation of results. PHYS 7386 - Method Theoretical Phys        (3) Complex analysis, Fourier series, Fourier and Laplace transforms, ordinary differential equations, partial differential equations, special functions. PHYS 7390 - Polymer Physics (3) Introduction to polymers, phase, behavior and dynamics. These include single polymer chain conformations, dilute and semi-dilute polymer solutions, polyelectrolyte solutions, effect of confinement, polymer blends, diblock copolymers, and kinetics of polymers in dilute and concentrated polymer solutions. PHYS 7520 - Statistical Mechanics          (3) Microcanonical, canonical and grand-canonical ensembles, ideal gases, weakly-interacting systems, quantum statistics, applications to polyatomic gases, phonons and black body radiation. PHYS 7710 - Adv Top Spectroscopy           (3) Advanced topics in atomic and molecular spectroscopy, including the interaction of radiation with matter, transition probabilities, hyperfine structure, applications of group theory to spectroscopic problems. PHYS 7995 - Seminar                        (1-3) Students enrolled in this course are required to attend all weekly seminars in the Physics department, and submit weekly short reports on the seminar attended. Open only to Physics majors. Grades of S, U, and IP will be given. PHYS 7996 - Thesis                         (1-6) Research contributing to the development of the MS thesis. Only 6 semester hours may be counted toward degree requirements. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. PHYS 8100 - Classical Mechanics            (3) Variational principles, Lagrangians and Hamiltonians, Poisson brackets, canonical transformations, Hamilton-Jacobi theory, and chaos in Hamiltonian systems. PHYS 8200 - Quantum Mechanics I            (3) Fundamentals of Hilbert Space, simple quantum systems and relations to classical mechanics, symmetry in quantum mechanics, interaction with electromagnetic fields, introduction to perturbation methods and scattering theory. PHYS 8201 - Quantum Mechanics II           (3) Continuation of PHYS 7200; scattering theory, quantum dynamics, spin, and perturbation methods. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 7200. PHYS 8520 - Statistical Mechanics          (3) Microcanonical, canonical and grand-canonical ensembles, ideal gases, weakly-interacting systems, quantum statistics, applications to polyatomic gases, phonons and black body radiation.
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/cas/phys.php
