http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/kws.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Graduate Catalog
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Academic Regulations
                        Faculty and Staff
                        Archive
                     
                     
                        
                           Degree Planning
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Minimum Degree Requirements
                                 Degree Programs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Graduate Catalog
                              	
                        
                              	Degree Planning
                              	
                        Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     KEMMONS WILSON SCHOOL OF HOSPITALITY AND RESORT MANAGEMENT
                     
                     
HPRM 6320 - Hospitality Services Mktg (3) Principles and models of services marketing with focus on applications to hospitality services industry;  expansion of traditional marketing mix variables into additional development of hospitality service concepts, marketing plans, and service quality  assessments. PREREQUISITE: MKTG 3010. HPRM 6331 - Adv Resort/Lodging Management (3) Issues, theories, and best practices of resort and lodging industry. PREREQUISITE: HPRM 2330, MGMT 3110. HPRM 6340 - Information Technology HPRM (3) Framework for information technology, systems development methodologies, and strategic information systems planning; current issues relating to the hospitality industry; focus on using information technology in networked environment to achieve organizational goals and objectives. HPRM 6350 - Properties Develomnt/Planning (3) Problems and opportunities inherent in developing and planning resort and hospitality facilities; sequence of property development, conceptual and space planning, design criteria, and construction management; establishing appropriate facilities requirements, understanding industry practices, and implementing properties decisions with integrated design, operations, financial and real estate framework. HPRM 7111 - Hospitality Grad Study Seminar (1) The course will consist of readings, projects, case studies, and
discussion. We will review and discuss the basic characteristics of each subject area, theoretical and practical application, and any current topics of interest. While a text is required, it will be supplemented by readings, group projects, and class discussion. Graduate students are expected to take the lead in developing and presenting ideas and concepts to stimulate discussion and enhance exploration of research. HPRM 7320 - Driving Sales & Maximizing (3) Current techniques used in driving sales and maximizing repurchase behavior to deliver revenue within the services industry. Advanced sales and marketing techniques that build consumer loyalty will be covered. HPRM 7331 - Hospitality Services Op Mgmt (3) Theory, application, and understanding of hospitality services operations, methods and practices. Integration of new trends and technology encompassing a global perspective. HPRM 7340 - Strategic Pricing & Revnue Max (3) Strategies and tactics employed in pricing of hospitality goods and services. Principles and concepts of strategic pricing and strategic financial management for revenue maximization. HPRM 7350 - Hospitality Asset Management (3) Strategies and tools to manage hospitality investments including development of skills to build value at both portfolio and property levels. Topics include: hotel management contracts, franchise agreements, benchmarking and financial analysis, and global asset management. HPRM 7413 - Employee Development Issues (3) This course is designed for students of general hospitality management, rather than for specialists in human resource management. This course will introduce you to the major issues associated with managing people in the context of the global marketplace. HPRM 7870 - Res. & Data Analysis in Hosp. (3) This course aims to provide an understanding of the value and limitations of business research. Students will be introduced to some key research methods and design issues. This course will also provide a survey of research methodology currently used in the field of hospitality administration and management. In addition to learning basic research methods and approaches, the student will relate these items to the analysis of projects and learn of existing research problems confronting administrators and managers.
                     
                     SPORT COMMERCE (SPRT)
                     
                     In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics
                        courses:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        SLC 6102-11. Workshops in SLC. (1-6). (RECR 6705-15). Selected phases of sport and
                           leisure commerce through group study, in-depth study in area of interest and need
                           for leaders in sport and leisure commerce. May be repeated for credit when topic varies.
                        
                        
                        SLC 6902-11. Special Topics SLC. (1-3). (RECR 6905-15).Current topics in sport and
                           leisure commerce. May be repeated with change in topic. See online class listings
                           for topic.
                        
                        
                        SPRT 7102-11. Special Topics SPRT. (1-6).Selected phases of sport commerce through
                           group study, in-depth study in area of interest and need for leaders in sport and
                           leisure commerce. May be repeated for credit when topic varies.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
SLC 6001 - Sprt Sales/Rev Prod I (3) Analyzes and produces skills essential to revenue production and sales processes commonly found in the sport business. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. SLC 6002 - Sprt Sales/Rev Prod II (3) Focuses on producing skills essential to managing existing customer sales commonly found in sport business.  PREREQUISITE:  SLC 6001. SLC 6622 - Fan Behavior/Rivalry (3) Overview of factors that influence sport fan behavior including why people become fans of sport teams, influence of rivalry on fan behavior, and expected outcomes of fan behavior and rivalry. SLC 6800 - Adv Computer Apps in SPRT (3) Evolution, current application, and future potential of computers for sport commerce. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor
                     
                     
SPRT 7010 - Research&Data Analysis in SPRT (3) Overview of systematic, structured problem solving for decision making in sport management services. Overview of research concepts, ethical issues, and process. Includes introduction to qualitative and quantitative research designs, data collection, analysis, and dissemination of findings. SPRT 7031 - Sport Finance (3) Provides an understanding of the current financial status of the various sectors of the sport industry as well as the strategies frequently implemented by financial managers within the industry. SPRT 7141 - Experiential Learning Credit (1-9) A systematic process for evaluating and credentialing graduate-level learning gained in a variety of contexts. Students will provide documentation of graduate-level knowledge and skills garnered in nontraditional settings to expert faculty reviewers. SPRT 7142 - Seminar in SPRT (1-3) (RECR 7145, SLC 7142). May be repeated for a maximum of 3 credits. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. SPRT 7152 - Spec Problems in SPRT (1-3) (RECR 7155, SLC 7152). Independent study or research, or both, on selected sport commerce problems and issues. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. SPRT 7165 - Adv Pers SC Global City (3) (SLC 7165). Provides and understanding of synergies and disjunctures between the US and the UK sport and leisure marketplace; addresses cultural negotiations and promotional strategizing of corporations that attempt to secure a presence within multiple locales and the work of cultural intermediaries. PREREQUISITE: SPRT 7321 or permission of instructor. SPRT 7175 - Adv Mgmt Sprt Org Int Per (3) (SLC 7175). Provides a critical understanding of how management of sport and leisure organizations is carried out in a European context; students will gain critical knowledge of the global environment in which the US sport industry exists and the specific urban issues that frame the UK marketplace. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. SPRT 7321 - Theoretical Foundations (3) (SLC 7321). Influence of historical, philosophical, and social elements upon sport and leisure management policies, practices, and programs. SPRT 7331 - SPRT Promotional Culture (3) (SLC 7331). Examination of popular sport practices and representations as both the products and producers of particular social, historical, economic, technological, and political arrangements; contribution to the formation of contextually specific class, race, gender, and nation based identities and experiences. SPRT 7341 - Commrcl Rec/Travl Toursm (3) (SLC 7341). Survey of commercial leisure services with special emphasis placed on travel and tourism; sports and athletics, theaters, fitness centers, amusement and theme parks, aquatic areas, risk recreation, and historical areas, and the travel and tourism industry. SPRT 7351 - Gender/Sexuality in SPRT (3) (SLC 7201, 7351). Relationship between sport, leisure, and the dominant gender practices, experiences, and identities that structure everyday life within contemporary society. PREREQUISITE: SPRT 7321, 7331, or permission of instructor. SPRT 7361 - Race & Ethnicity in SPRT (3) (SLC 7361). Influence of sport and leisure on construction of differentiated racial and ethnic identities and experiences in contemporary American society, focusing on the way sport and leisure provide contexts in which dominant understandings of race and ethnicity are introduced, naturalized, and reproduced. PREREQUISITE: SPRT 7321, 7331, or permission of instructor. SPRT 7371 - Sprt Comrce in Global Mrkt (3) (SLC 7371). Cultural production, meaning, promotion, and consumption of sport and leisure across contrasting social, political, and economic systems; relative position of sport and leisure industries at cultural interstices in the emerging global village including the phenomena of cultural conflict, cultural resistance, and cultural imperialism. PREREQUISITE: SPRT 7321; and 7331 or permission of instructor. SPRT 7410 - Athletic Team Management (3) (SLC 7410). Managerial perspective for developing an athletic program. Includes ethics within coaching, developing a philosophy of coaching, developing a youth feeder program within an athletic program, building and supervising a staff, and working with various stakeholders including administrators, athletes, and boosters. SPRT 7420 - Sport Marketing (3) (SLC 7332, 7420). Basic market concepts with applications to sport and leisure organizations, including urban sport and leisure market consumer behavior, strategic market planning, marketing mix component integration, and market information management. PREREQUISITE: MKTG 3010 and 4901 (or equivalents); or MKTG 7060; or permission of instructor. SPRT 7440 - Promotions in Sport Commerce (3) (SLC 7440). A study of marketing communication principles and practices as they relate to sport and leisure from a theoretical, as well as practical perspective; special emphasis on building and maintaining effective media relations, advertising, sponsorship, licensing, public relations, sales, and after-marketing tactics. SPRT 7503 - Strat Mgmt Sprt Cmrce Org (3) (SLC 7503). Analysis of theoretical and practical issues relevant to management and administration of sport and leisure organizations; application of organizational analysis, managing change and external environments; understanding and managing power and organizational culture of sport commerce. SPRT 7600 - Readings in SPRT (3) (RECR 7135 or PHED 7133, SLC 7600). Directed readings in the area of sport and leisure; materials related to strengthen areas of study. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credits. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. SPRT 7603 - Admin of Athletics (3) (SLC 7603). Examination of sport within American higher education and related institutions. Designed to prepare students for a career in intercollegiate athletics management. Examination of athletic departments as well as the governing associations and related institutions that impact each other. Reviewing case studies from institutions of various institutional size, conferences, associations, and divisions, this course further provides students a comprehensive view of athletic administration procedures. SPRT 7605 - Practicum in SPRT (3) (RECR / SLC 7605). Culminating experience allows students to demonstrate knowledge and skills in an appropriate professional setting based on their training and skills. Should be conducted after all other course work is complete. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. SPRT 7650 - Legal Issues in Sport Commerce (3) (SLC 7650). Overview of the legal system?s role in the provision of sport products and services including legal system, constitutional law, negligence law, risk management, intentional torts, criminal acts, antitrust law, labor law, contract law, intellectual property law, and gender discrimination legislation/statutes within the sport industry. SPRT 7651 - Policy and Governance in Sport (3) Examination and analysis of development and enforcement of sport policies including those by local, national, and international sport organizations. Using the social institution of sport, topics examined include economic and social development, environmental responsibility, sport diplomacy, violence, criminal behavior, performance enhancing drugs, gambling, and development of sport. SPRT 7653 - Sport Areas & Facilities Mgmt (3) (SLC 7100, 7653). Advanced management and operation of leisure and sport areas and facilities, emphasizing comprehensive planning, design, maintenance, and inspection of areas and facilities. SPRT 7741 - Occupational Devp SPRT (3-6) Independent study on sport topics related to student?s occupational experiences and goals.  May be repeated.  Grades of S, U, or I will be given.  NOTE:  Sport Commerce majors may not use this course to fulfill degree requirements. PREREQUISITE: Permission of Advisor. SPRT 7800 - Adv Computer Apps in SPRT (3) (RECR / SLC 7800). Evolution, current application, and future potential of computers for sport commerce. SPRT 7950 - Applied Project in SPRT (1-6) (SLC 7950). Scholarly capstone experience in which students integrate and apply discipline-specific knowledge, skills, and insights in developing a product related to their professional goals as approved by a three-person project committee. PREREQUISITE: Completion of 18 credit hours in the program of study with a minimum graduate GPA of 3.00 and permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given.
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Degree Planning
                        
                           
                              
                              Minimum Degree Requirements
                              Degree Programs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Learn more about our degree programs.
                           
                           
                              Graduate School
                              
                           
                           
                              2016-2017 Academic Calendar
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/kws.php
