http://www.memphis.edu/shs/programs/health_promotion.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			School of Health Studies
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Programs
                        Students
                        Faculty
                        Research
                        Centers
                        News
                     
                     
                        
                           SHS Programs
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Undergraduate
                                       
                                       Dietetics
                                       
                                       Exercise, Sport and Movement Sciences
                                       
                                       Health Sciences
                                       
                                       Healthcare Leadership
                                       
                                       Physical Education Teacher Education
                                    
                                 
                                 Graduate
                                       Exercise and Sport Science
                                       Health Promotion
                                       Physical Education Teacher Education
                                       Clinical Nutrition
                                       Environmental Nutrition
                                       Nutrition Science
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	SHS
                              	
                        
                              	Programs
                              	
                        Health Sciences
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Health Sciences
                     
                     Promoting Healthy Lifestyles...Building Healthy Communities
                     
                     Students who enjoy focusing on the health and well-being of others may want to complete
                        a concentration in Health Sciences. In our undergraduate program you will develop the knowledge and skills that will encourage success in your chosen
                        path. With an interdisciplinary approach this program includes both basic sciences
                        and behavioral sciences into an applied discipline to promote healthy living.
                     
                     
                     The Health Sciences concentration allows you to pursue your interests among the various
                        health professions. It is grounded in health promotion theory and strategies but offers
                        elective hours to allow you to align your program with your own professional goals.
                        With outstanding classroom teaching and an emphasis on practical application the program
                        will prepare you to enter the job market or pursue a graduate education in a variety
                        of health fields.
                     
                     
                     We encourage students to extend their knowledge and skills beyond the classroom through
                        an internship program where they will take what they have learned in the classroom
                        and apply it in settings across the community. Internship settings will be selected
                        by students according to their professional goals and may include health departments,
                        rehabilitation centers, community centers, hospitals, schools, corporate settings
                        and a variety of other sites. Upon program completion students may choose to enter
                        the workforce in government, community, corporate and hospital settings or they may
                        pursue a graduate program in a variety of health-related fields such as:
                     
                     
                     • Health Promotion • Public Health • Dentistry • Dental Hygiene • Occupational Therapy • Medicine • Physician Assistant • Physical Therapy • Optometry • Pharmacy • Sonography/Radiology
                     
                     
                     Our faculty is comprised of highly regarded researchers, talented teachers and professional and
                        community leaders who actively engage students in the learning environment. We are
                        committed to providing not only formal training but also leading students toward becoming
                        contributing members of society and making positive contributions to the world. Our
                        research interests reflect this commitment with an emphasis on community based participatory
                        practices and engaged scholarship practices as we explore, plan, implement and evaluate
                        a variety of health issues and behaviors such as obesity, physical inactivity and
                        osteoporosis in a variety of populations.
                     
                     
                     CAREERS
                     
                     Our graduates begin their careers or continue their education in a variety of areas
                        such as:
                     
                     
                     Health Promotion Health Education Health Counseling/Coaching Community Wellness Corporate Wellness Public Health Fitness and Wellness Specialist
                     
                     
                     Pre-Professional Focus Dental/Dental Hygiene Occupational/Physical Therapy Optometry Pharmacy Medicine/ Physicians Assistant Other Allied Health Sciences
                     
                     
                     UNDERGRADUATE MAJOR
                     
                     Health Studies
                     
                     • Concentration: Health Sciences • Typical 4-Year Concentration Sequence • Degree Sheet: BS
                     
                     Specific academic focus areas in Health Sciences include:
                     
                     • Health Promotion and Lifestyle Management • Pre-Dental • Pre-Dental Hygiene • Pre-Occupational Therapy • Pre-Medicine • Pre-Physician Assistant • Pre-Physical Therapy • Pre-Optometry • Pre-Pharmacy • Pre-Sonography/Radiology
                     
                     
                     GRADUATE MAJOR
                     
                     Health Studies
                     
                     • Concentration: Health Promotion (Online Program) • Degree: MS
                     
                     Upon completing the program, students are well prepared to seek certifications offered
                        by professional organizations including the National Commission for Health Education
                        Credentialing Inc. (NCHEC), American College of Sports Medicine, WELCOA and Wellcoaches .
                     
                     
                     STUDENT TESTIMONIALS
                     
                     Mandy Aycock
                     
                     "Whether you want to be a health coach or community educator, manage non-profit organizations
                        or gyms, or coordinate worksite wellness programs, the field of Health Promotion offers
                        versatility in career choice and the University of Memphis Health Promotion program
                        prepares you to take your career as high up as you want to go."
                     
                     
                     Shanna Clayborn
                     
                     "The Graduate Health Promotion program prepares you for the field no matter what your
                        previous background is in. The program is also very flexible for those who work full
                        or part time. Most classes are offered online, and the professor's work hard to keep
                        everyone engaged."
                     
                     
                     Evan Gerrard
                     
                     "The University of Memphis' Health Promotion program offers information around several
                        different health and fitness organizations, courses on leadership, counseling, fitness
                        instruction, and health habits and ways to apply each of these topics into real life
                        scenarios. I feel as if this program is helping me gain the confidence I need to begin
                        a successful career in the field of health and fitness."
                     
                     
                     Michael Gratton
                     
                     "The Health Promotion Program has presented a way to narrow the many career and research
                        opportunities that interested me. My research interests now involve holistic health,
                        motivation and psychological health. Additionally, my background in psychology and
                        counseling was easily integrated within this program and many of its courses."
                     
                     
                     Tara Hill
                     
                     "After one Health Promotion course I knew this was the right program for me. The curriculum
                        is designed to prepare you for a variety of Health Promotion jobs, the professor's
                        care about your success and the classes are fun and interactive. If you have a passion
                        for health and wellness and enjoy working with others the Health Promotion program
                        may be right for you too."
                     
                     
                     Maria Luchessi
                     
                     "The Health Promotion program provided me with real-world experiences in the form
                        of graduate projects, internships, and assistantships, which gave me the experience
                        and confidence I needed to pursue a career as a Wellness Coordinator."
                     
                     
                     Maddie Meadows
                     
                     "I graduated from the University of Memphis with my masters in Health Promotion and
                        I am now a student in Occupational Therapy. There is currently a push in Occupational
                        Therapy to combine their interventions with health promotion techniques. Not only
                        do I get to learn something new in my current field, I am able to apply what I gained
                        from the Health Promotion program."
                     
                     
                     Misty Rackham
                     
                     "The classes included in the Health Promotion curriculum have been the most valuable
                        learning experiences for me. Classes such as marketing, program development, counseling,
                        aerobic and resistance training, and exercise physiology have all really helped. Actually,
                        all of my Health Promotion classes have been influential in my new career!"
                     
                     
                     Stephanie Rozar
                     
                     "The Health Promotion program offers a variety of classes that advanced my skills
                        not just in making healthier lifestyle choices, but also in marketing, leadership,
                        and program implementation and evaluation. These are skills that I will need to take
                        with me to my next career or graduate school."
                     
                     
                     Laura Todd
                     
                     "I chose the Health Promotion field because I wanted to work with people. In this
                        field I get to work with so many different people and I get to help make a difference
                        in their life."
                     
                     
                     RESEARCH
                     
                     Within the Health Sciences and Health Promotion programs in the School of Health Studies,
                        faculty pursue research devoted to the applied study of health including personal
                        health and wellness, behavior change, and community programming and design. Faculty
                        members secure external funding to support their research, and their work is published
                        in both national and international peer-reviewed journals.
                     
                     
                     Recent Projects
                     
                     PACE - Partnership for Active Community Environments (PACE) was a two year project funded
                        by a grant from the National Institutes of Health (NIH). PACE was a participatory
                        based project focused on the incentives and barriers to building active community
                        environments.
                     
                     
                     Memphis Healthy U - Memphis Healthy U is an initiative that encourages students, employees, and visitors
                        to our campus to eat healthier, move more, and become tobacco free. HPRO faculty are
                        involved in the ongoing implementation of campus activities and events that promote
                        a healthy lifestyle.
                     
                     
                     GLITTER - Girls Learning Interrelated Techniques Targeting Environmental Risks (GLITTER)
                        is a home-based intervention implementing multi-systemic practices aimed at increasing
                        physical activity, improving diet quality, and attenuating BMI increase among pre-adolescent
                        girls who are at risk for becoming obese.
                     
                     
                     Memphis Grizzlies Family Fitness Challenge - The Family Fitness Challenge is a healthy lifestyle intervention and research study
                        sponsored by the Grizzlies as part of the Memphis Grizzlies Healthy Home Court initiative.
                        Four local families have been recruited to participate in this challenge that encourages
                        healthy eating and physical activity through partnerships with local dietitians and
                        fitness professionals at the YMCA.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        SHS Programs
                        
                           
                              
                              Undergraduate
                                    
                                    Dietetics
                                    
                                    Exercise, Sport and Movement Sciences
                                    
                                    Health Sciences
                                    
                                    Healthcare Leadership
                                    
                                    Physical Education Teacher Education
                                 
                              
                              Graduate
                                    Exercise and Sport Science
                                    Health Promotion
                                    Physical Education Teacher Education
                                    Clinical Nutrition
                                    Environmental Nutrition
                                    Nutrition Science
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply to our Undergraduate Programs
                              Submit your application today
                           
                           
                              Apply to our Graduate Programs
                              Earn your Masters Degree in one of our six programs!
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Have questions? Call or email today!
                           
                           
                              TIGUrS Garden
                              Check out our on-campus urban garden
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/30/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/shs/programs/health_promotion.php
