http://www.memphis.edu/shs/programs/clinical_nutrition.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			School of Health Studies
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Programs
                        Students
                        Faculty
                        Research
                        Centers
                        News
                     
                     
                        
                           SHS Programs
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Undergraduate
                                       Dietetics
                                       Exercise, Sport and Movement Sciences
                                       Health Sciences
                                       Healthcare Leadership
                                       Physical Education Teacher Education
                                    
                                 
                                 Graduate
                                       
                                       Exercise and Sport Science
                                       
                                       Health Promotion
                                       
                                       Physical Education Teacher Education
                                       
                                       Clinical Nutrition
                                       
                                       Environmental Nutrition
                                       
                                       Nutrition Science
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	SHS
                              	
                        
                              	Programs
                              	
                        Clinical Nutrition
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     M.S. Nutrition (Concentration Clinical)
                     
                     
                        
                        MS Degree
                        
                        Admissions & Application Checklist
                        
                        Preceptors
                        
                        Careers & Information for Interns
                        
                        Student Testimonials, Awards and Honors
                        
                     
                     
                     Each year, on the 2nd Monday of June, we host an Open House for the Clinical Nutrition
                        program.  The following schedule is for 2016:   Open House June 13, 2016, from 1-3 p.m., in Shelby Room 342 and International Symposium
                           August 11, 2016 in Beale Room 363 .  Individual appointments may be made with Dr. Williams-Hooker in the summer.  Appointments
                        are not available during the fall and spring semesters except under extenuating circumstances. 
                        Please contact Dr. Ruth Williams-Hooker for more information.
                     
                     
                     The University of Memphis MS Nutrition / Dietetic Internship and Residency Program
                        is an intensive curriculum lasting only 16 months. Students are expected to complete all requirements
                        in the 16 month period but in extenuating circumstances (e.g., severe illness), may
                        be allowed up to 24 months for completion. The program begins in mid-August of the
                        first year and continues with classes and/or supervised practice through the end of
                        the fall semester of the second year. The program is 39 credit hours. The didactic
                        curriculum focuses on preparing students for clinical rotations. Students take 12
                        hours of coursework each of the first two semesters (fall and spring), and may have
                        an optional 20-hour per week Graduate Assistantship (GA), (2 credit hours) in a clinical
                        research, healthcare, or management site.
                     
                     
                     The supervised practice (internship/rotations) aspect of the program focuses primarily
                        on adult clinical nutrition with pediatric rotations, community rotations, and management
                        rotations occurring in a variety of healthcare sites throughout the Memphis area.
                        Thesis/project work begins during the first fall semester and is optional for completion
                        of the program. However, some sites will require that a student conduct research as
                        a component of their involvement at that site. If not conducting a thesis/project,
                        students will be expected to complete 3 credit hours of elective coursework. Rotations
                        start in late May/early June after completing the initial fall and spring semesters
                        and take place over the summer and second fall semester. During this time, students
                        are in rotations 40 hours per week and meet for classes approximately 4 hours per
                        week. After completion of the 28 weeks of rotations, the students will have accumulated
                        approximately 1200 hours of supervised practice including a culminating residency
                        experience. They will have been prepared beyond entry level and will receive a verification
                        statement. Students are then eligible to finish the credentialing process to become
                        a Registered Dietitian (RD). If applicable, students will defend their thesis/project
                        during the second fall semester; or if not completing a thesis/project, will complete
                        a comprehensive exit exam.
                     
                     
                     The state of Tennessee requires that RDs be licensed, as do most other states. Students
                        will be given instructions about licensure prior to graduation. If a student is unable
                        to complete the program in 16 months, they will be allowed to continue for 8 additional
                        months in order to allow for completion.
                     
                     
                     To view the University's Academic Calendar, please visit the Registrar's webpage;
                        for a timeline of our program click here .
                     
                     
                     Although the actual schedule for rotation dates and facilities change every year,
                        we have several facilities offering the same rotation (e.g. we have 6 renal sites,
                        2 nutrition support sites). For a typical schedule for supervised practice please
                        click here .
                     
                     
                     The Credentialing Process to Becoming a Registered Dietitian
                     
                     1. Completion of a minimum of a bachelor's degree at a US regionally accredited university
                        or college and DPD course work approved the Accreditation Council for Education in
                        Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND) of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics (AND).
                     
                     
                     2. Completion of an ACEND-accredited supervised practice program at a healthcare facility,
                        community agency, or a foodservice corporation, or combined with undergraduate or
                        graduate students. The University of Memphis Clinical Nutrition Master's Program /Dietetic
                        Internship is an ACEND accredited supervised practice program.
                     
                     
                     3. Pass a national examination administered by the Commission on Dietetic Registration
                        (CDR).
                     
                     
                     4. Complete 75 hours continuing professional educational requirements every 5 years
                        to maintain registration.
                     
                     
                     Program Costs
                     
                     Information about current tuition rates is available on The University of Memphis
                        graduate school website. There may be an activity fee for certain courses and there
                        is also a fee for selected online courses. Presently, there is only one online course
                        taken during the didactic portion of the program.
                     
                     
                     Internship fees are set at approximately $1,672 per semester for the first 3 semesters
                        (fall, spring, summer) a student is at The University of Memphis (total cost $5015).
                        This fee cannot be waived. The internship fee is due at the beginning of each semester
                        for the first three semesters and covers the costs involved in administering the internship,
                        as well as ancillary costs associated with completing the academic program (e.g.,
                        conference travel, registration, preceptor support). Internship fees will not be refunded
                        and tuition will be refunded based on University of Memphis policy.
                     
                     Graduate Assistantship (GA) While we attempt to fund all Clinical Nutrition students with a GA and historically
                        have been successful in doing so, a GA is not guaranteed for all students. Students
                        should consult with Dr. Ruth Williams-Hooker for more information. If a GA is provided, it will require that a student work approximately
                        20 hours each week of the semester (except for university breaks) and it will pay
                        a monthly stipend for the first academic year of study (fall and spring semesters
                        only: payments typically made September-April). The stipend amount varies depending
                        on GA location but generally ranges from $6500 to $8000 for the academic year (approximately
                        $10-12 per hour). The GA does not include any tuition or fee payment but does waive
                        the out-of-state tuition/fee cost, if applicable. Therefore, students will be required
                        to pay the in-state tuition/fee rate during the time in which they are funded through
                        a GA. In nearly all cases, the GA is limited to only the first year of the program
                        (fall and spring). However, students will continue to receive the in-state tuition/fee
                        rate during the summer term between years one and two. During the final semester (fall
                        semester of year two), students will no longer receive a GA and will be expected to
                        pay the out-of-state tuition/fee rate, assuming they do not qualify for the in-state
                        rate based on residency. In rare cases, a GA may be available during the second year.
                        Students will have an option to rank their interest in the various GA sites and may
                        be required to interview for selected sites. Students should inquire with Dr. Ruth Williams-Hooker for more information regarding GAs.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
               
               
                  
                     
                        SHS Programs
                        
                           
                              
                              Undergraduate
                                    Dietetics
                                    Exercise, Sport and Movement Sciences
                                    Health Sciences
                                    Healthcare Leadership
                                    Physical Education Teacher Education
                                 
                              
                              Graduate
                                    
                                    Exercise and Sport Science
                                    
                                    Health Promotion
                                    
                                    Physical Education Teacher Education
                                    
                                    Clinical Nutrition
                                    
                                    Environmental Nutrition
                                    
                                    Nutrition Science
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply to our Undergraduate Programs
                              Submit your application today
                           
                           
                              Apply to our Graduate Programs
                              Earn your Masters Degree in one of our six programs!
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Have questions? Call or email today!
                           
                           
                              TIGUrS Garden
                              Check out our on-campus urban garden
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 11/8/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/shs/programs/clinical_nutrition.php
