http://www.memphis.edu/msci/research/stat.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   		
   	
   		
   
   
   		
   		
   
   
   	
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Mathematical Sciences
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        People
                        Undergraduate
                        Graduate
                        Research
                        News
                     
                     
                        
                           Research
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Applied Statistics
                                 CLION
                                 Combinatorics
                                 Computational Analysis
                                 Differential Equations
                                 Ergodic Theory
                                 Functional Analysis
                                 Math Education
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Math Sciences
                              	
                        
                              	Research
                              	
                        Applied Statistics 
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Applied Statistics Group
                     	
                     
                     Main Focus of Research Interests
                     
                     
                        
                        Statistical analysis of microarray data, and DNA sequence using Bayesian, meta-analytic
                           and semi-parametric procedures
                        
                        
                        Bioinformatics
                        
                        Large scale computer simulation 
                        
                        Modeling and analysis of clustered discrete data with applications to teratology and
                           developmental toxicity studies
                        
                        
                        Statistical risk assessments based on clustered data
                        
                        Random number generation
                        
                        Design of experiment
                        
                        Cryptography
                        
                        Nonparametric and Semiparametric Statistics
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     Research Focus and Collaboration
                     
                     The focus of our research is statistical applications. As such our faculty collaborate
                        extensively with research groups within the university: faculty from Biology and Computer
                        Sciences Departments, the College of Education, the School of Public Health, the College
                        of Engineering, and the Fogelman College of Business and Economics.  We stress the
                        importance of graduate students' participation in faculty research and collaboration.
                        To ensure that our graduate students get training in analyzing real life data, we
                        have an established internship program for PhD  students with  the Department of Biostatistics
                        at St. Jude Children's Research Hospital and occasionally with the University of Tennessee
                        Health Sciences Center. Our graduate students also get practical experience through
                        graduate assistantship support from other departments as needed.
                     
                     
                     
                     Seminars
                     
                     The group holds regular research seminars with presentations from faculty and graduate
                        students. Our statistics group and members of the biostatistics faculty from the St.
                        Jude Children's Research Hospital form the backbone of the West Tennessee Chapter
                        of the American Statistical Association (WTASA), an organization whose membership
                        includes faculty and graduate students from the School of Public Health, and the University
                        of Tennessee Health Sciences Center.  The WTASA holds monthly meetings and seminars.
                     
                     		
                     
                     Recommended Courses
                     
                      In addition to foundation courses in the theory of probability and statistical inference,
                        we encourage every student to take courses in Bayesian Inference, Stochastic Processes,
                        Linear, Generalized Linear and Non-linear Models, Design of Experiments, Statistical
                        Computing, Statistical Programming in R and SAS.
                     
                     
                     
                     Research Conferences
                     
                     PhD students are encouraged to attend various conferences in their research areas.
                        This is in addition
                        to the conferences and seminars frequently hosted by the Department. Usually, graduate
                        students presenting at conferences get some funding for travel, hotel and meals.
                     
                     
                     
                     Job Placement
                     
                     We have a most impressive record of placement of PhD students. Practically all our
                        Masters and PhD graduates obtain employment in universities, industries, colleges
                        or high schools. These include those who are currently employed at top  institutions
                        such as Universities of Florida, Maryland, Chicago and Tennessee.  Some others  have
                        achieved executive positions in pharmaceutical, insurance, and financial industries.
                        Among our masters graduates are heads of department in some of the top private high
                        schools in Memphis.
                     
                     
                     
                     Summer Funding
                     
                     Summer funding may be available for some advanced PhD students.
                     
                     
                     Editorial Activities
                     
                     Our faculty provide editorial services to top journals that include the Journal of the American Statistical Association , Journal of the Royal Statistical Society , Biometrika , Biometrics , Technometrics , Journal of Statistical Planning and Inference , Journal of Computational Statistics and Graphical Statistics , Statistics in Medicine , Annals of Statistics , and Annals of Statistical Mathematics and Bioinformatics .
                     
                     
                     
                     Members
                     
                      Below are research interest and two representative or recent publications from each
                        member.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Dale Bowman , Assistant Professor
                     Research Interests: Applied statistics
                     
                     
                        	
                        On the Exact Correlation Structure of Exchangeable Multinomial Outcomes, with E.O.
                           George, submitted to Biometrics (2013).
                        
                        	
                        Regression Models for Analyzing Clustered Binary and Continuous Outcomes under an
                           Assumption of Exchangeability, Analysis of Mixed Data: Methods & Applications , Chapman & Hall/CRC Press, with E.O. George and Q. An (2013).
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Su Chen , Assistant Professor
                     Research Interests: Non-parametric and semi-parametric statistics and applied statistics
                     
                     
                        
                        Identification of Quantitative Trait Loci for Canine Hip Dysplasia by two sequential
                           multipoint linkage analyses. Journal of Applied Statistics, 39 (8):1719-1731, with Zhu, L., Jiang, Z., Zhang, Z., Ku, H-C, and Todhunter, R.   (2012).
                        
                        
                        Western and Asian customers' perception towards Chinese restaurants in the United
                           States. Journal of Quality Assurance in Hospitality and Tourism, 12 (2):121-139, with Ma, J., Qu, H., and Njiteb, D. (2011).
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Lih-Yuan Deng , Professor
                     Research Interests: Random number generation and simulation
                     
                     
                        
                        Efficient computer search of large-order multiple recursive generators for pseudo-random
                           number generators, Journal of Computational and Applied Mathematics, 236 , 3228-3237,  with Shiau, J.J. H. and Lu, H. H. S. (2012).
                        
                        
                        Large-order multiple recursive generators with modulus 2^31-1, INFORMS Journal on Computing, 24 (4), 636-647, with Shiau, J.J. H. and Lu, H. H. S. (2012).
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     E. Olúṣẹ́gun , Professor
                     Research Interests: Modeling and analysis of clustered data, Bayesian procedures in bioinformatics and
                     meta-analysis
                     
                     
                        
                        An Empirical Bayes Approach for Analysis of Diverse Periodic Trends in Time Course
                           Gene Expression Data,  Bioinformatics, 29 , 182-188.  with  M. Kocak, S. Pyne,  and S. Pounds, (2013).
                        
                        
                        On the Use of Stochastic Ordering to Test for Trend with Clustered Binary Data, Biometrika , 95-108, with  A. Szabo, (2010).
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Research
                        
                           
                              
                              Applied Statistics
                              CLION
                              Combinatorics
                              Computational Analysis
                              Differential Equations
                              Ergodic Theory
                              Functional Analysis
                              Math Education
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Contact Us
                              How to contact us, and whom to contact about what.
                           
                           
                              Student FAQ
                              Student resources for advising, tutoring, and registering for classes.
                           
                           
                              ALEKS
                              Information on the ALEKS computerized placement test.
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/9/15
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/msci/research/stat.php
