http://www.memphis.edu/msci/grad/handbook.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Mathematical Sciences
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        People
                        Undergraduate
                        Graduate
                        Research
                        News
                     
                     
                        
                           Graduate
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Admissions
                                 Assistantships
                                 Awards
                                 The M.S. program
                                 The Ph.D. program
                                 Courses & Syllabi
                                 Graduate Exams
                                 Graduate Handbook
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Math Sciences
                              	
                        
                              	Graduate
                              	
                        Graduate Student Handbook 
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Graduate Student Handbook
                     		
                     
                     Printable version
                     		
                     
                     
                        
                        Introduction
                        
                        
                           
                           This handbook provides graduate students with policies and procedures that relate
                              to the academic program and facilities of the Department of Mathematical Sciences (MSCI) . The handbook serves as a guide for graduate students toward completion of their
                              degree requirements; as well as listing the Graduate Assistants' responsibilities
                              and duties. The policies and procedures contained in the handbook supplement those
                              of the Graduate School as published in the Graduate Catalog and in the University of Memphis Student Handbook . The student is responsible for knowing and complying with the published regulations
                              of the Graduate School, most notably Admissions Regulations , Admission of International Students , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements . The official version of this handbook is on the MSCI website .
                           
                           
                           Note that we cannot guarantee all the provisions in this handbook are fully up-to-date.
                              If in doubt, contact the Director of Graduate Studies or the Graduate Catalog for the most up-to-date information.
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Graduate Programs Offered by MSCI
                        
                        
                           
                           Several graduate programs are offered in the MSCI.
                           
                           
                              
                              Master of Science (MS) in Mathematical Sciences : Requires completion of 33 credit hours, and either a thesis or passing a Comprehensive
                                 Exam. Concentrations in Applied Mathematics, Mathematics, Teaching of Mathematics,
                                 and Statistics are offered.
                              
                              Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Mathematical Sciences : Requires completion of 72 total post-Baccalaureate credit hours, passing Qualifying
                                 and Comprehensive Exams, and a dissertation. Concentrations in Mathematics and Applied Statistics are offered.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           More details on the programs and application procedures are provided on the MSCI website and in the Graduate Catalog . It is the Graduate Student’s responsibility to ensure that all of the requirements
                              for graduation are satisfied.
                           
                           
                           Ph.D. students are usually eligible to obtain a MS degree in Math before completing
                              their Ph.D., and are strongly encouraged to obtain this extra degree. Students who
                              wish to obtain an MS degree while pursuing a Ph.D. should contact their advisor and
                              the graduate coordinator as soon as they have passed the qualifying exams at the MS
                              level or above and earned enough credit hours.
                           
                           
                           MS and Ph.D. students are strongly encouraged to present their research at professional
                              meetings of their discipline. The University also sponsors an annual event, the Student Research Forum , which provides a multidisciplinary showcase for graduate student research. Awards
                              are presented for the best posters and talks. MS and Ph.D. students are encouraged
                              to participate.
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                        
                        Assistantships, Fellowships, and Awards
                        
                        
                           
                           Graduate Assistantships (GAs)
                           
                           MSCI is committed to providing financial support for graduate assistants who are admitted
                              with support, are making satisfactory progress toward completion of their degree,
                              and are performing their job responsibilities satisfactorily. Assistantships will
                              usually only be awarded to students in the Ph.D. program.
                              See GA Rights and Responsibilities below for more details.
                           
                           
                           Graduate School Fellowships and Awards
                           
                           Fellowships and awards are offered through the Graduate School.
                           
                           
                           The annual Student Research Forum is held in the spring, sponsored by the Graduate School and the Helen Hardin Honors
                              Program.
                           
                           
                           The Department of Mathematical Sciences' Outstanding Teaching Award
                           
                           Every spring the DMS recognizes a graduate student in mathematical sciences with excellent
                              performance as teaching assistant. This includes excellence in teaching, tutoring
                              or mentoring undergraduate students.
                           
                           
                           The selection process begins with nominations and then a selection committee sends
                              a recommendation to the Director of Graduate Programs.
                           
                           
                           Recipients are given a plaque and a cash award of $150.
                           
                           The Dr. Ralph Faudree Award in Mathematics Research
                           
                           The Dr. Ralph Faudree Award in Mathematics will be given annually to up to two Ph.D.
                              students in Mathematics, who have demonstrated excellent progress toward achieving
                              the doctoral degree.  It consists of a monetary award of $300 and a certificate of
                              recognition. Eligibility requirements include: (1) having passed the Qualifying Ph.D.
                              Exam and (2) a commendable teaching record.
                           
                           
                           Faculty members in DMS are encouraged to send nominations of candidates for the award
                              to the Director of Graduate Studies, Dr. Fernanda Botelho , by March 31 . Nominees will then be invited to submit an abstract and a title for a 25-minute
                              presentation of their research during a Mathematics Research Day, held in April. The
                              final decision will be made by a jury consisting of department-appointed faculty members.
                              All award recipients are listed at the MSCI webpage
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        International Students
                        
                        
                           
                           International students must attend a mandatory set of meetings at the start of the
                              first semester that are presented by the International Student Office . Topics addressed include INS laws , health insurance , social security , tutoring, TB test scheduling , and the required SPEAK test . All non-US Graduate Assistants are required to take the SPEAK test during their
                              first semester; and if necessary, take any remedial classes and repeat the SPEAK test, until passing the speak test. MS students must pass the
                              SPEAK test as part of their degree. Students whose native language is English may be able to waive the SPEAK test, but this is not guaranteed. Note that although there
                              are free remedial classes for students who need to retake the test, the number of
                              places available is limited. Students who do not apply on time may have to pay $135
                              for an alternative SPEAK prep class.
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     		
                     
                     
                        
                        Residency Requirements
                        
                        
                           
                           At present, there is no residency requirement for the MS degree. Ph.D. candidates
                              must commit to full-time study for a minimum of two successive semesters after admission
                              to the MSCI degree program to fulfill the residency requirement. International students
                              may have additional visa-related requirements.
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Health Insurance
                        
                        
                           
                           All international students and their dependents are required to have health insurance coverage and are responsible for purchasing health insurance upon arrival at the
                              University. Otherwise, students may obtain health insurance coverage through the TBR Student Health Insurance .
                           
                           
                           
                           Health Plan for Graduate Assistants
                           
                           The University of Memphis has partnered with Church Health Center to offer Memphis
                              Plan health coverage to all domestic graduate assistants. GAs must carefully read their email announcing their new eContract for the coming semester
                                 for instructions on how to apply for the UofM/Church Health Center Memphis Plan for
                                 Graduate Assistants . GAs will be required to authorize payroll deduction for the student portion of plan
                              costs in order to participate in the plan. Access to both the plan application, and
                              a way to electronically accept payroll deduction, will be included in the aforementioned
                              email. More information is available on the Graduate School website . 
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Graduate Student Housing
                        
                        
                           
                           Because housing is limited, new Graduate Assistants should finalize their arrangements
                              prior to their arrival. Graduate and Student Family Housing is located on the University of Memphis, Park Avenue campus, approximately one mile
                              from the main campus. The residents are comprised of students, students' spouses,
                              and students' children. It is a community different from a typical apartment complex
                              in that most residents are parents and/or students, and many are working full or part-time
                              jobs. Both one and two bedroom apartments are available, and four apartments are specifically
                              designed to accommodate students with disabilities. For information please contact
                              the Graduate Student Housing Coordinator .
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     	
                     
                     
                        
                        Advisors and Committees
                        
                        
                           
                           Academic Advisors
                           
                           Upon arrival, a new student will be assigned an Academic Advisor by the relevant Graduate Coordinator ( Math or Statistics ). The academic advisor's job is to advise students on course selections and general
                              procedures. Each semester, a student cannot register for any classes until they have
                              met with their academic advisor. The advisor must clear the "Alternate PIN" to allow
                              the students to register. With the exception of the first semester, this meeting should
                              occur at the end of the previous semester. New students are expected to enroll in
                              classes at least two weeks before the start of the semester. Returning students are expected to enroll by the
                              end of the previous semester, or at least notify Dr. Paul Balister of their intended schedule.
                           
                           
                           Research Advisors
                           
                           Ph.D. students, and MS students who opt to write a thesis, should choose a Research Advisor to advise them on research for their Thesis/Dissertation. Research Advisors are chosen
                              by mutual agreement between the student and the advisor and is usually different from
                              the Academic Advisor initially assigned to the student. Ph.D. students should choose
                              their Research Advisor before, or immediately after, they pass their qualifying exams.
                              MS students who opt to write a thesis should choose their Research Advisor by the
                              end of their second semester. Research Advisors typically take over the responsibilities
                              of the Academic Advisor (advising on course selection, clearing alternate PINs, etc.).
                           
                           
                           Change of Advisors
                           
                           The student has the right to change his or her Academic or Research Advisor at any
                              time. Agreement is only required by the new advisor.
                           
                           
                           Committees
                           
                           Ph.D. students, and MS students who opt to write a thesis, should choose a Thesis/Dissertation
                              Committee. The committee should consist of five faculty members for a Ph.D. committee
                              and three faculty members for an MS committee. One member will be the Research Advisor,
                              and at least one other member should be outside of the immediate subject area (PDEs,
                              Combinatorics, Analysis, etc.) of the Thesis/Dissertation. Faculty from other departments
                              can be chosen if appropriate. Faculty must have the appropriate graduate faculty status to serve on such a committee. (In MSCI, all professors and even some instructors
                              are eligible.) The graduate student is responsible for asking faculty to serve on
                              their committee and for checking eligibility of committee members.
                           
                           
                           For Ph.D. students, the committee should be chosen at least a month before the Comprehensive
                              Exam, and at least two months before the Dissertation defense. The student should
                              also complete the Dissertation Faculty Committee Appointment Form , and take the form to the Graduate School . For MS students, the committee should be chosen at least two months before the Thesis
                              defense.
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Course Loads
                        
                        
                           
                           MSCI graduate assistants supported by MSCI teaching/research assistantships at the
                              normal full-time level (20 hours/week) are required by the University to register for 9 credit hours (typically 3 courses) per semester
                              unless enrolled only in Thesis/Dissertation hours, in which case 6 hours is sufficient.
                              Note that once students enroll in Thesis or Dissertation hours, they must continue
                              to enroll in Thesis or Dissertation hours every semester (Fall and Spring) until they
                              graduate. Tuition is paid for GAs on the basis of up to 9 credit hours per semester.
                              GAs will be required to pay tuition for any additional credit hours over the credit
                              hours per semester covered by the assistantship. Graduate assistants count as in-state
                              students when calculating tuition.
                           
                           
                           Usually International students are also required to register for at least 9 credit
                              hours per semester (or 6 hours of Thesis/Dissertation) as part of their visa requirements.
                           
                           
                           Graduate students who do not have, or no longer have, an assistantship and are not
                              international students need only maintain 1 credit hour of thesis/dissertation per
                              semester to continue in the program. Moreover, this 1 credit hour continues to be
                              calculated at the in-state rate if the in-state rate was previously applicable, even
                              if the student moves out of state.
                           
                           
                           Students are expected to enroll in classes at least two weeks before the start of the semester. If a student is unable to register on time, he
                              or she must email Dr. Paul Balister the list of courses he or she intends to take. This is very important as classes may otherwise be cancelled due to low enrollment.
                           
                           	
                           All new GAs must enroll in the GA Teaching & Academic Strategies Course, MATH 7960
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Course Numbers and Special Courses
                        
                        
                           
                           Course numbers
                           
                           Some courses are offered at two different levels with two different course numbers
                              differing in the first digit.
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              For 4000/6000-level courses, all graduates must enroll in the 6000-level version.
                                 The 4000-level is for undergraduates.
                              
                              
                              For 7000/8000-level courses, MS students should enroll at the 7000-level and (except
                                 as noted below) Ph.D. students should enroll at the 8000-level.
                              
                              
                              For 7000/8000-level courses, it is expected that the students enrolled at the 7000-level
                                 will be given significantly less workload than those at the 8000-level. This is to
                                 encourage Ph.D. students to attend classes (at the 7000-level) outside of their immediate
                                 specialty and broaden their mathematical knowledge without imposing too much of a
                                 burden on their time.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           It is the duty of the student to ensure enough courses at the right levels are completed
                              so as to fulfill the appropriate program requirements .
                           
                           
                           
                           Independent Study Sections
                           
                           
                           A course offered in the form of "individual study" is a "reading course" supervised
                              by the instructor but normally not given in a class. Some courses listed in the catalog are specially designed to be offered as individual study courses. Examples include
                              MATH 7671/8671 , 7821/8821 , 8812 , 8813 . The content of an individual study course may not duplicate any existing graduate
                              course and must be approved by the department Chair or her designee during the preceding
                              semester. Only students who have passed the qualifying exam are eligible for an individual
                              study course. Students may not take more than 6 credit hours of individual study courses.
                           
                           
                           The courses Math 9000 and Math 7996
                           
                           
                           The purpose of these is to allow a Ph.D. or MS student to meet semester credit hour
                              enrollment requirements without having to enroll in courses while writing up his/her
                              dissertation or thesis. One of the requirements of these courses is that once enrolled
                              in it for one semester, a student must continue enrolling in it for every semester
                              (Fall + Spring) until the Ph.D./MS is completed. This includes the semester in which
                              the student graduates. As there is a limit of 15 credit hours that can be applied
                              to a Ph.D. from Math 9000 , this course should really be reserved for the last two years of the Ph.D., as otherwise
                              the student may be required to enroll in additional hours of Math 9000 that do not help him or her graduate. See requirements for masters and doctoral degrees.
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        GA Rights and Responsibilities
                        
                        
                        
                           
                           Compensation
                           
                           Graduate assistantships offered at the Ph.D. level by the department typically provide
                              a $13,500 stipend plus tuition, increasing to $14,500 after passing the Qualifying
                              Exam. Note that you need a social security number to receive payment. Thus you should apply for a social security number as soon as
                              possible if you do not already have one. The University pays stipends by direct deposit
                              to a bank account. You must provide an account number. If you already have a social
                              security number and do not have a bank account, an easy choice is the First South
                              Credit Union branch above the bookstore. You must pick up your first paycheck in person
                              at the bursar's office in Wilder Tower.
                           
                           
                           Offices, Mailboxes, etc.
                           
                           GAs will be assigned office space, a mailbox, and a locker to store personal items.
                              GAs must provide their own locks to secure their locker if they want to reserve a
                              space in the lockers available in DH 313. Access to computer equipment is provided.
                              GAs will also be included on the MSCI website with their picture and their own personal
                              webpage.
                           
                           
                           Review of Academic Progress
                           
                           Each student will discuss progress in their degree program with his or her advisor
                              when they meet to determine a course schedule for the following semester. The student’s
                              academic progress will be evaluated by the department and serves as a basis, along
                              with the job performance evaluation, for the student’s request for assistantship appointment
                              or reappointment. Note that a graduate assistantship may be reduced or cancelled due
                              to either poor academic performance, or poor performance in carrying out assistantship
                              duties. Note that the university requires graduate assistants to maintain a 3.00 GPA
                              in order to retain their assistantships.
                           
                           
                           Students are expected to complete their degree in a timely fashion, typically two
                              years for the MS degrees and five years for the Ph.D. degree. Students will not, except
                              in very unusual cases, be awarded financial support beyond these limits. Requests
                              for support beyond the above limits must be submitted in writing by the student’s
                              advisor to the Graduate Coordinator.
                           
                           
                           
                           Duties of Graduate Assistants
                           
                           Graduate Assistants (GAs) supported by MSCI are required to work 20 hours per week.
                              These hours include a combination of teaching, assisting faculty members with grading
                              and/or proctoring exams, assisting in the Mathematical Sciences Department as needed,
                              and tutoring in the MATH Learning Center, as assigned by Dr. Paul Balister . 
                              The GA is responsible for his/her assigned tutoring schedule.  If for some reason,
                              the GA needs a substitute for a specific day/time, then he/she should ask other GAs
                              or student workers to exchange their days/times. Each GA must perform his/her assigned
                              number of tutoring hours. Undergraduate student workers may not work, and will not
                              be paid for, any hours above their contract. In all cases the GA must inform Dr. Paul Balister .
                           
                           
                           If a GA is negligent in performing his/her responsibilities, then his/her compensation
                              may be reduced and renewal of GA contract may be at risk.
                           
                           
                           GAs are not responsible for substituting their Academic Advisor's classes, nor are
                              they required to perform personal jobs for their Academic Advisors.
                              However, a GA may elect to substitute if the time does not conflict with his/her classes,
                              MLC tutoring, or other GA responsibilities, and if the Advisor compensates with reciprocal
                              classroom time or in some other mutually agreed manner.
                           
                           
                           Graduate assistants are to be present in Memphis each semester one full week prior to the first day of class. Graduate students who are teaching or grading finals
                              must be present up to the Tuesday following all of the published Final Exams, which
                              is the day after the due date for posting the grades. These dates are on the Academic Calendar .
                           
                           
                           Graduate Assistants must ensure that they are eligible to teach (see section on Teaching
                              Eligibility) within one full year of entering the program. Assistantships are reviewed
                              periodically and are dependent on the students making adequate progress towards degree
                              completion, and on performing their duties satisfactorily. Failure on either count
                              may result in the reduction or cancellation of the assistantship.
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                        
                        Teaching Eligibility
                        
                        
                           
                           Graduate assistants are expected to teach classes starting in their second year. Graduate
                              students without an MSCI assistantship may be allowed to teach, although funding is
                              unlikely to be available to pay any salary for this. Limited summer teaching is available
                              for qualified students, and currently pays $500 per credit hour taught.
                           
                           
                           To be qualified to teach, students must complete the following requirements.
                           
                           
                              
                              Must have 18 credit hours of graduate coursework in Math successfully completed (at
                                 least C- grade).
                              
                              
                              Must pass the SPEAK test if not a US citizen. (Students whose native language is English may be able to waive this requirement.) Note that an appointment must be made for this
                                 test, and this may take a few weeks, so don't leave it until the last moment.
                              
                              
                              Must complete the FERPA tutorial . (This is an online tutorial and should take less than half an hour to complete.)
                              
                              
                              Complete the Verification of academic credentials form . (Just the first page, and the SPEAK test score on the second page if applicable.)
                                 Hand this form in to Ms. Vickie Middleton .
                              
                              
                              Must attend the Teaching Assistant Orientation Workshop, which is sponsored by the
                                 Graduate School, prior to the start of their first teaching assignment. A copy of
                                 the workshop schedule will be provided and specific responsibilities of teaching assistants
                                 will be further elucidated in the initial meeting of teaching assistants held each
                                 fall or spring semester before the first week of classes.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           Note that we require completion of the first four of these steps at least 3 months before start
                                 of teaching . Thus typically students will only be allowed to teach after one full year (including
                              summer) in the program.
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Teaching Responsibilities
                        
                        
                           
                           Students who teach a class (TAs) are required to adhere to the following requirements
                           
                           
                              	
                              The TA must teach the entire published class time, including the first day of class.
                                 This is to ensure that each class has at least 750 minutes contact time per semester hour.
                              
                              
                              The TA must find an eligible substitute teacher if he/she is unable to teach on any
                                 class day.
                              
                              
                              The TA must report to the Course Coordinator for his/her assigned course and follow
                                 the Coordinator’s instructions. The Course Coordinator will supply the TA with information
                                 specific to the course, including online homework access.
                              
                              
                              The TA must provide a syllabus which informs his/her students about the content of
                                 the course and grading policies. For example, if the TA intends to use plus/minus
                                 grades, this must be stated in the syllabus. Instructors may get information from
                                 the Course Coordinator or refer to example syllabi on the MSCI website .
                              
                              
                              As the MSCI representative in the classroom, the TA must treat his/her students with
                                 dignity and respect, answering each question with concern for the students' understanding,
                                 and without making the student feel stupid.
                              
                              
                              In the United States, the classes are expected to be interactive, including student
                                 participation, questions, and feedback. The TA should encourage his/her students to
                                 ask questions.
                              
                              
                              The TA is required to offer at least one hour per week of office hours which must
                                 be advertised to his/her students. (Time in the Math Learning Center can be used to
                                 satisfy this requirement.)
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           Due to the fact that students have many different schedules, the TA cannot schedule any required class-related activity outside of normal class hours. Also,
                              the TA cannot reschedule his/her final exam to another time. For more information regarding class
                              times, choice of classrooms, and other scheduling issues, contact Dr. Paul Balister .
                           
                           
                           As a guideline, the TA should note that on average about 65%-75% of students in undergraduate
                              math classes get a grade of C- or better (out of all students who are still enrolled
                              after two weeks). This does not mean that TAs are required to give this many passing grades. It does mean that if
                              the TA's pass rate differs significantly from this then the TA should seek advice
                              about his/her grading policy from his/her Course Coordinator. Note that many TAs find
                              that their students are much weaker than they were expecting. (Remember, UofM students are typically not destined
                              to be math Ph.D.s!) In particular, many students have difficulty thinking abstractly,
                              so the TA should spend most of his/her time in class going over examples.
                           
                           
                           One can obtain photos of the students in his/her course: Go to MyMemphis → Course Roster & Drop/Add Activity Channel → Access class roster with optional photos
                              report → Select Term → Get Rosters → Select Show All Photos, or Print Roster with
                              Photos, or Print Roster Without Photos.
                           
                           	
                           
                           Teaching Assistant Coaching
                           
                           The Teaching Assistant’s classroom will be visited by an interested faculty member,
                              at least once during the semester.  The professor will make observations, subsequently
                              meet with the TA to offer recommendations that will help the TA with teaching, and
                              send a report to Dr. Tsz Ho Chan , the GA supervisor.
                           
                           	
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Graduate
                        
                           
                              
                              Admissions
                              Assistantships
                              Awards
                              The M.S. program
                              The Ph.D. program
                              Courses & Syllabi
                              Graduate Exams
                              Graduate Handbook
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Contact Us
                              How to contact us, and whom to contact about what.
                           
                           
                              Student FAQ
                              Student resources for advising, tutoring, and registering for classes.
                           
                           
                              ALEKS
                              Information on the ALEKS computerized placement test.
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/23/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/msci/grad/handbook.php
