http://www.memphis.edu/physics/graduate/masters.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Physics and Materials Science
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Undergraduate
                        Graduate
                        People
                        Research
                        Resources
                        News
                        SPS
                     
                     
                        
                           Graduate Information
                           
                              
                                 
                                 About the Masters
                                 Program Timeline
                                 Program/Course Requirements
                                 Course Descriptions
                                 Thesis Plan Certification Form
                                 Financial Aid
                                 UofM Graduate School
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Department of Physics and Materials Science
                              	
                        
                              	Graduate
                              	
                        Masters of Science Degree Program in Physics and Materials Science
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Master of Science Degree
                     
                     I. The Department of Physics offers a major in Physics for the Master of Science degree with concentrations in
                        General Physics and Computational Physics. Program objectives are: (1) development
                        of an in-depth and specialized knowledge of physical phenomena; (2) ability to successfully
                        demonstrate analytic cognitive knowledge in physics and communications skills through
                        close interaction with other students and the physics faculty; and (3) preparation
                        to continue studies in a Ph.D. program, enter a professional school, or enter the
                        workforce as a technical professional.
                     
                     
                     II. MS Degree Program
                     
                     A. Program Admission Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        For admission to the graduate program, a Bachelor’s degree in Physics or a closely
                           related area is required; no minimum undergraduate GPA is specified. Students are
                           also required to present, as a prerequisite, 20 semester hours of undergraduate physics
                           courses including upper division Mechanics, Electricity and Magnetism, and approved
                           Mathematics courses in Calculus and Differential Equations.
                        
                        
                        The GRE general test is recommended and may enhance an applicant's likelihood of admissions.
                           The GRE subject test is not required.
                        
                        
                        Students from non-English speaking countries are required to demonstrate proficiency
                           in English via the TOEFL examination. The minimum acceptable score is 550 (or 210
                           on the computer-based TOEFL).
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     B. Program Requirements
                     
                     
                        
                        After meeting the general degree requirements for admission to The Graduate School,
                           students selecting Physics as a major will be assigned to the Physics Department Graduate
                           Committee, which must approve and direct their course of study.
                        
                        
                        Core requirements
                        
                        
                           
                              
                              PHYS 7100, 7200, 7300, 7386, and 7520.
                              
                              Satisfactory completion of a comprehensive written examination typically taken during
                                 the second year of graduate study.
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                        Concentration Requirements (Students may elect either a thesis or non-thesis program.)
                           
                              
                              General Physics, thesis option
                              
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    Sufficient additional courses, including 3-6 semester hours in PHYS 7996, Thesis,
                                       to satisfy a minimum of 30 semester hours (9 semester hours may be in a collateral
                                       field of study). 18 semester hours must be taken in physics courses numbered 7000
                                       or above.
                                    
                                    
                                    The student must present a research proposal to the graduate thesis committee at the
                                       end of the first semester of his/her study.
                                    
                                    
                                    The student must complete a research project, submit a written thesis describing the
                                       research, orally present and defend the thesis before a faculty committee. Students
                                       should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/ Dissertation Preparation Guide before beginning to write.
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              General Physics, non-thesis option
                              
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    Sufficient additional courses to satisfy a minimum of 33 semester hours, in which
                                       9 may be in a collateral field of study. 21 semester hours must be taken in physics
                                       courses numbered 7000 or above.
                                    
                                    
                                    Complete a survey of an area of current research in fundamental or applied physics
                                       and make an oral and written presentation based on this survey before a faculty committee.
                                       The subject of this survey must be approved by the departmental graduate committee
                                       at least one semester prior to graduation.
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              Computational Physics, thesis program
                              
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    PHYS 7385
                                    
                                    PHYS 7996 Thesis; must contain a strong computational physics component
                                    
                                    Completion of at least two of the following 7 courses (for a total of 6 credit hours)
                                       CHEM 6415, CHEM 7411, CHEM 7414, MATH 6391, MATH 6721, MATH 7321, PHYS 7375
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              Computational Physics, non-thesis program
                              
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    PHYS 7385
                                    
                                    Completion of at least two of the following 7 courses (for a total of 6 credit hours)
                                       CHEM 6415, CHEM 7411, CHEM 7414, MATH 6391, MATH 6721, MATH 7321, PHYS 7375
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     PHYSICS (PHYS)
                     
                     6000-09. Special Topics in Physics. (3). Selected topics of current interest in physics. Topics are varied and announced in
                        online class listings.
                     
                     
                     6020. Biophysics (3). Covers biomolecules, RASMOL program for viewing protein pdb files, ideal gas, Brownian
                        motion, diffusion, Nernst-Planck eq., life in the low Reynold's number world, free
                        energy, Boltzmann distribution, entropic forces, RNA folding, hair cell chemo-mechanical
                        amplifier, water, osmotic flow, Oosawa force, electric double layer interaction, Poisson-Boltzmann
                        eq., chemical potential, dissociation reactions, self-assembly, cooperativity, eigenvalues
                        and eigenvectors, DNA stretching and melting, thermal ratchets, Smoluchowski eq.,
                        Michelis-Menten vs. allosteric enzymes, molecular motors, Nernst potentials, Donnan
                        equilibrium, ion pumps, bacterial flagellar motor, ATP synthase, potassium channels.
                        PREREQUISITE: calculus-based PHYS 2120.
                     
                     
                     6021. Applied Radiation Physics. (3). Applied radiation and radioactivity; types of radiation, radiation management, interaction
                        with matter, and biological effects; radiation safety aspects emphasized. PREREQUISITES:
                        PHYS 2120 or 2020 and MATH 1910.
                     
                     
                     6040. Medical Physics. (3). Physics of sensory, respiratory, and circulatory systems; physical basis of radiology
                        and nuclear medicine. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2120 or both PHYS 2020 and MATH 1910.
                     
                     
                     6050. Astrophysics I. (3). Principles of physics applied to the objects of the universe, e.g., planets, sun,
                        stars, etc. Also includes and introduction to electromagnetic radiation and telescopes.
                        Recommended for science and engineering majors interested in astronomy. PREREQUISITE:
                        PHYS 2120 or PHYS 2520.
                     
                     
                     6051. Astrophysics II. (3). Principles of physics applied to star birth and death, black holes and neutron stars,
                        galaxies and quasars, the beginning and evolution of the universe. PREREQUISITE: PHYS
                        3051.
                     
                     
                     6060. Advanced Physics Methodology. (3). Students will perform advanced fundamental experiments in physics focusing on underlying
                        physical principles, the scientific methodology of experimental research, and detailed
                        error analysis. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 3010.
                     
                     
                     6110. Nuclear Physics. (3). Properties of atomic nuclei; radioactive transitions; alpha, beta, and gamma decay;
                        binding energy, nuclear forces, and nuclear models. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 3010.
                     
                     
                     6121. Mechanics II. (3). Advanced classical mechanics: central–force motion, dynamics of a system of particles,
                        motion in non-inertial reference frames, dynamics of rigid bodies, coupled oscillations,
                        and continuous systems (wave motion).
                     
                     
                     6211. Optics. (3). Geometrical and physical optics including such topics as thin lenses, spherical mirrors,
                        lens aberrations, optical instruments, waves interference, diffraction, absorption,
                        transmission, and scatterings. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 3011, 3211.
                     
                     
                     6410. Introduction to Quantum Theory. (3). Experimental basis of quantum theory; development of the Schrodinger equation and
                        its solution for simple systems; selected applications in atomic and molecular structure.
                        PREREQUISITE: PHYS 3010, 3011, 3211.
                     
                     
                     6510. Thermodynamics. (3). A mathematical treatment of thermodynamics, including such topics as work, energy,
                        enthalpy, entropy, reversible and irreversible processes, equilibria, specific heats,
                        and phase transitions. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2120, 3011.
                     
                     
                     6610. Solid State Physics. (3). Consideration of such topics as lattice vibrations, specific heats, electrical and
                        thermal conduction in solids, magnetism. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 4410 or 6610.
                     
                     
                     7010. Fundamental Concepts of Classical Physics for Teachers. (3). Basic concepts of Newtonian mechanics, heat, and sound; emphasis on increasing understanding
                        in classical physics, providing demonstrations of physical principles suitable for
                        classroom use, and designing and performing laboratory experiments. Credit does not
                        apply toward a major or minor in chemistry or physics.
                     
                     
                     ‡7011. Physics Practicum I. (1). Practicum or laboratory experiments, laboratory techniques, laboratory management,
                        and supervised experience in presenting demonstrations with emphasis on concepts covered
                        in Physics 7010. Two laboratory hours per week. COREQUISITE: PHYS 7010.
                     
                     
                     ‡7021. Physics Practicum II. (1). Continuation of Physics 7011 with emphasis on concepts covered in Physics 7020. Two laboratory hours per week. COREQUISITE: PHYS 7020.
                     
                     
                     ‡7031. Physics Practicum III. (1). Continuation of Physics 7021 with emphasis on concepts covered in Physics 7030. Two laboratory hours per week. COREQUISITE: PHYS 7030.
                     
                     
                     7050-59. Special Topics in Advanced Physics. (3-6). Selected topics in advanced physics. Topics are varied and announced in online class
                        listings.
                     
                     
                     ‡7060. Individual Study in Advanced Physics. (1-3). Independent investigation of an area of advanced physics under supervision of a Physics
                        faculty member. Written report required. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours
                        credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of chair.
                     
                     
                     †7080. Teaching Skills for Graduate Assistants. (3). Overview of teaching techniques and classroom management for physics laboratory instructors;
                        includes practical demonstrations in laboratory physics. May be repeated for a maximum
                        of 12 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Limited to physics majors and permission of graduate
                        coordinator.
                     
                     
                     †7090. Workshop in Professional Development for Graduate Students. (3). Presentations by Physics faculty and students on current research topic; oral presentation
                        required based on research performed under the supervision of a faculty member. PREREQUISITE:
                        Limited to physics majors and permission of graduate coordinator.
                     
                     
                     7100-8100. Classical Mechanics. (3). An analytical study of mechanics of particles and rigid bodies by Lagrange’s, Hamilton’s
                        and Hamilton-Jacobi methods. The special theory of relativity, canonical transformation,
                        and Poisson brackets are among the concepts emphasized.
                     
                     
                     7200-8200. Quantum Mechanics I. (3). Physical principles and mathematical formalism of quantum theory, with emphasis on
                        applications in atomic, molecular, and solid state physics; scattering theory; and
                        absorption and emission of electromagnetic radiation. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 6410 or equivalent.
                     
                     
                     7201-8201. Quantum Mechanics II. (3). Continuation of PHYS 7200; scattering theory, quantum dynamics, spin, perturbation
                        methods, and Hartree-Fock. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 7200.
                     
                     
                     7210. Relativistic Quantum Mechanics. (3). Quantum mechanics of relativistic particles including the Dirac equation, relativistic
                        covariance, solutions for free particles, particles in electromagnetic fields, particles
                        in central fields, methods of approximation and massless particles. PREREQUISITE:
                        PHYS 7200 or permission of instructor.
                     
                     
                     7220. Relativistic Quantum Fields. (3). General formalism of fields, the Klein-Gordon field, second quantization of the Dirac
                        field, quantization of electromagnetic fields, interacting fields, scattering matrix
                        perturbation theory, dispersion relations, and renormalization. PREREQUISITE: PHYS
                        7210 or permission of instructor.
                     
                     
                     7230. Elementary Particles. (3). Introduction to elementary particles, elementary particle dynamics, relativistic
                        kinematics, symmetries, bound states, Feynman calculus, quantum electrodynamics, electrodynamics
                        of quarks and hadrons, quantum chromodynamics, weak interactions, and gauge theories.
                        PREREQUISITE: PHYS 7200 or permission of instructor.
                     
                     
                     7300. Electrodynamics. (3). An advanced course in electricity and magnetism; topics include fields and potentials,
                        energy methods, steady currents and magnetic materials, Maxwell’s equations, and electromagnetic
                        waves.
                     
                     
                     7375. Methods of Mathematical Physics I. (3). (Same as MATH 7375). Finite dimensional vector spaces, matrices, tensors, vector fields, function spaces,
                        differential and integral operators, transform theory, partial differential equations.
                        PREREQUISITE: Background in ordinary differential equations and linear algebra.
                     
                     
                     7376. Methods of Mathematical Physics II. (3). (Same as MATH 7376). Continuation of PHYS 7375. Complex variable theory, asymptotic expansions, special
                        functions, calculus of variations, additional topics on matrices and operators, topics
                        in non-linear analysis. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 7375.
                     
                     
                     7385. Methods of Computational Physics. (3). Solution of problems in macroscopic and atomic-level problems in physics by numerical
                        analysis and computer simulation, with emphasis on the accuracy and efficiency of
                        large-scale computations and the physical interpretation of results.
                     
                     
                     7386. Methods of Theoretical Physics. (3). Use of orthogonal functions in solving problems of continuum mechanics, electrodynamics,
                        and quantum mechanics; algebra of commutators applied to angular momentum; introduction
                        to group theory and symmetry groups in physics.
                     
                     
                     7520-8520. Statistical Mechanics. (3). Elements of kinetic theory and applications to gases, specific heats, magnetism,
                        etc.; partition functions, introduction to Boltzmann statistics and quantum statistics.
                     
                     
                     7710. Advanced Topics in Spectroscopy. (3). Advanced topics in atomic and molecular spectroscopy, including the interaction of
                        radiation with matter, transition probabilities, hyperfine structure, applications
                        of group theory to spectroscopic problems.
                     
                     
                     †7995. Seminar. (1-3). Selected topics in physics research including areas of medical physics. Students
                        required to give oral presentation based on library or original research.
                     
                     
                     †7996. Thesis. (1-6). Original investigation of an assigned problem in the area of graduate study to be
                        carried out under the supervision of a qualified member of the staff. This investigation
                        will furnish the material for a thesis. Scientific articles, progress reports, and
                        special problems of interest are reviewed and discussed by the student in seminars
                        each semester. A maximum of six semester hours credit is allowed toward a master’s
                        degree.
                     
                     
                     †Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. ‡Grades of A-F, or IP will be given.
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Graduate Information
                        
                           
                              
                              About the Masters
                              Program Timeline
                              Program/Course Requirements
                              Course Descriptions
                              Thesis Plan Certification Form
                              Financial Aid
                              UofM Graduate School
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply Now
                              Now accepting applications for the Undergraduate and Graduate Programs!
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Main office location and numbers, undergraduate and graduate advising, and Alumni
                                 information update form
                              
                           
                           
                              Seminars & Events
                              The department presents weekly seminars during the spring and fall semesters
                           
                           
                              Careers in Physics and Materials Science
                              Find out what opportunities are available to you with a degree in Physics and Materials
                                 Science
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 8/25/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/physics/graduate/masters.php
