http://www.memphis.edu/physics/resources/facilities/characterization_tech.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Physics and Materials Science
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Undergraduate
                        Graduate
                        People
                        Research
                        Resources
                        News
                        SPS
                     
                     
                        
                           Resources
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Facilities
                                       
                                       Characterization Techniques
                                       
                                       Synthesis Laboratory
                                       
                                       Biomaterials Research
                                    
                                 
                                 Outreach
                                       Memphis CRESH
                                       Memphis SHOPP
                                       Starlight Program
                                    
                                 
                                 Other Resources
                                       Laptop with Origin and MatLab
                                       Demo Equipment
                                    
                                 
                                 Student Lab Manuals
                                       PHYS 1001
                                       PHYS 1002
                                       PHYS 2011
                                       PHYS 2021
                                       PHYS 2111
                                       PHYS 2121
                                    
                                 
                                 Society of Physics Students
                                 Undergraduate Permit
                                 Undergraduate Tutoring
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Department of Physics and Materials Science
                              	
                        
                              	Resources
                              	
                        Characterization Techniques
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Characterization Techniques
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Bruker D8 Advance X-ray Diffractomer (NSF Funded)
                                 
                                 The state of the art Bruker D8 Advance XRD system is equipped with scintillation detector
                                    and fast Vantec-1 detector. The system also has chi, phi, theta, and x-y-z motion.
                                    A high temperature (RT-1400 oC) stage is easily mounted on the stage. Powerful software
                                    such as LEPTOS and TOPAPA are used for the data analysis and modeling. The system
                                    is regularly used for performing powder diffraction and thin film reflectrometry.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Atomic Force Microscope (AFM) (NSF Funded)
                                 
                                 The Atomic Force Microscope DI 3000 is housed at the Integrated Microscopy Center.
                                    The microscope is equipped with phase imagining, magnetic imaging, nanoindentation,
                                    surface potential, liquid cell, and inverted microscope.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Particle Size and Zeta Potential Analyzer
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Delsa NanoS
                                 
                                 The DelsaNano S measures particles as small as 6 Angstrom and as large as 7 micron
                                    with molecular weight as small as 267 Dalton in a concentration range from 10ppm to
                                    40%* (w/v). It uses precision optics to avoid light intensity and coherence loss due
                                    to fiber optics collection. The utilization of both log-scale and linear-scale correlators
                                    makes broadest size range measurement possible. The system is also equipped with cell
                                    to measure zeta potential of solid flat surfaces.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Magnetic Characterization
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Vibrating Sample Magnetometer
                                 
                                 The vibrating sample magnetometer (VSM) is has air cooled 1.1T magnet. The system
                                    is capable of performing RT hysteresis measurement.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Mossbauer Spectrometer (NSF-Funded):
                                 
                                 Mossbauer spectroscopy (Seeco, Inc) is a resonance spectroscopy which uses Co gamma
                                    source to probe iron atom and its coordination. This spectrometer is equipped with
                                    LT (77K) and HT (500 C) attachments. The hyperfine parameters such as hyperfine field,
                                    isomer shift and quadrupole shift provide wealth of information on the nature of iron
                                    atom in the metal, oxides, and biological compounds.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 AC Resistance/Inductance Bridge:
                                 
                                 The low temperature AC bridge measures resistance of materials as a function of temperature
                                    (10-400 K) and external magnetic field (500 Oe). The magnetic field is provided by
                                    Helmholtz coils. The resistance is measured using four-probe method using Linear Research
                                    bridge. The bridge is sensitive up to 1 micro Ohm reading. The sample stage is designed
                                    to study giant-magneto resistance materials in the presence of in-plane magnetic field.
                                    The entire setup is controlled by LabView. The bridge is also used to study susceptibility
                                    and magnetization of magnetic materials using inductance method.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Temperature Dependent High Resistance
                                 
                                 Resistivity in the range of giga Ohms of materials is measured using SVS Lab resistivity
                                    bridge (TPR-EXP) in the temperature range of 295-500 K.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Magneto-resistance Measurement
                                 
                                 Magneto-resistance measurement device is a home build device. The device is capable
                                    of measuring magneto-resistance as a function of magnetic field (maximum 2000 Oe)
                                    and rotational angle of the sample. The resistance is measured using Keithly 330 source
                                    meter in 4-point probe geometry and van der paw geometry. The system automated using
                                    Labview program.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Dielectric Measurement
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Frequency Dependent
                                 
                                 Dielectric property of materials is characterized using Agilent Fieldfox 14 GHz vector
                                    network analyzer using Dielectric Assessment Kit (DAK) probe (SPEAG, Switzerland).
                                    The dielectric probes is designed for fast, precise, non-destructive and easy to use
                                    measurements of liquids, solids and semi-solids in the 200 MHz to 20 GHz frequency
                                    range. The DAK software allows to view choice of the complex permittivity parameters
                                    (ε', ε", σ, tanδ) in a variety of data formats (linear and logarithmic charts, Smith
                                    chart, Cole-Cole plot and tabular).
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Temperature Dependent
                                 
                                 Temperature dependent dielectric property of materials is characterized using SVS
                                    Lab. dielectric analyzer (DEC-01) in the temperature range 295K to 500 K.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Precission Multiferroic System
                                 
                                 Radiant Technology RT600, Precision Multiferroic test system is designed specifically
                                    to characterize the electrical properties of non-linear materials. The Vision Software
                                    allows the user to construct complex or simple programs with any number of tests to
                                    characterize all aspects of the sample in one execution while keeping track of the
                                    measurement results and the history of the sample being tested. A polarization hysteresis
                                    measurement applies an electric field to the sample while measuring the change in
                                    the sample polarization. Electric Field (E) and Polarization (D) are two of the six
                                    thermodynamic properties of materials. The other four are Stress (T), Strain (S),
                                    Temperature (Q) and Entropy (s). Of the six, all can be stimulated and/or measured
                                    directly except for Entropy (s).
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Thermal Characterization
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Differential Scanning Calorimeter
                                 
                                 Dupont DSC has a wide temperature range of operation from liquid nitrogen temperature
                                    to 600 degree C. Thus, the equipment is used for thermal characterization of wide
                                    range of materials from polymers, oxides, to metallic system. The DSC is computer
                                    controlled and has data analysis software.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Thermogravemetric Analyzer
                                 
                                 Dupont TGA has a wide temperature range of operation from RT to 1000 degree C. The
                                    TGA is computer controlled and has data analysis software.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Optical Characterization
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 UV-Vis-IR Spectrophotometer
                                 
                                 The spectrophotometer (Ocean Optics) is a table top device with a UV-Vis-IR source,
                                    optical fibers, gas cell, and CCD detector. The system is used to study the optical
                                    properties of colloids and nanoparticles.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 EnWave EZRaman-XB Spectrometer
                                 
                                 Fully integrated portable Raman system equipped with 785nm frequency stabilized 250
                                    mW laser and with a spectral range of 250-2350 cm-1.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 FTIR
                                 
                                 Thermo Scientific IR 100 has a spectral range of 7800 to 375 cm-1 with resolution
                                    down to 4cm-1. The Nicolet IR100 FT-IR has inbuilt software and a sample compartment
                                    mount for standard transmission accessories such as liquid cells, KBr pellets, and
                                    ATR assembly. ATR assembly is equipped with ZnSe crystal.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Other
                                 
                              
                              
                               
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Merlin High Performance Viscometer
                                 
                                 This temperature controlled (5-85 oC) The MERLIN viscometer is well suited for investigating
                                    the mixing, stirring, and pumping behavior of coatings, emulsions, and dispersions,
                                    as well as for performing conventional flow and viscosity profile experiments.The
                                    innovative design incorporates a Peltier temperature control system that allows isothermal,
                                    step, and/or ramp temperature profiles.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Autosorb-I
                                 
                                 Quantchrome Autosorb-I provides automated analysis of pore size and surface area measurement
                                    of variety of inroganic and organic materials, using variety of adsorbates.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Resources
                        
                           
                              
                              Facilities
                                    
                                    Characterization Techniques
                                    
                                    Synthesis Laboratory
                                    
                                    Biomaterials Research
                                 
                              
                              Outreach
                                    Memphis CRESH
                                    Memphis SHOPP
                                    Starlight Program
                                 
                              
                              Other Resources
                                    Laptop with Origin and MatLab
                                    Demo Equipment
                                 
                              
                              Student Lab Manuals
                                    PHYS 1001
                                    PHYS 1002
                                    PHYS 2011
                                    PHYS 2021
                                    PHYS 2111
                                    PHYS 2121
                                 
                              
                              Society of Physics Students
                              Undergraduate Permit
                              Undergraduate Tutoring
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply Now
                              Now accepting applications for the Undergraduate and Graduate Programs!
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Main office location and numbers, undergraduate and graduate advising, and Alumni
                                 information update form
                              
                           
                           
                              Seminars & Events
                              The department presents weekly seminars during the spring and fall semesters
                           
                           
                              Careers in Physics and Materials Science
                              Find out what opportunities are available to you with a degree in Physics and Materials
                                 Science
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 8/25/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/physics/resources/facilities/characterization_tech.php
