http://www.memphis.edu/abroad/resources/parents.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Global Learning Office
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Programs
                        Students
                        J-1 Students
                        Faculty
                        Funding
                        Resources
                        News
                        About
                     
                     
                        
                           Resources
                           
                              
                                 Passport and Visa
                                 Study Abroad Wiki
                                 Parents
                                 Study Abroad Ambassadors
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Global Learning Office
                              	
                        
                              	Resources
                              	
                         Parents
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     FAQs for Parents
                     
                     TAKING THE FIRST STEP: DECIDING TO STUDY ABROAD
                     
                     Why should my child study abroad? In this increasingly competitive economy, studying abroad can give students an advantage
                        over their peers in many ways. First, it can enhance a resume. Not only does it show
                        instantly that someone has international experience, but it also implies students
                        are independent, mature, confident and can communicate across cultures. Students can
                        use their experiences to give employers concrete examples of how they use these skills.
                        These skills are extremely valuable in any profession, not just careers directly related
                        to international business. In addition to making students more marketable, studying
                        abroad also has a significant impact on the individual. Students experience different
                        perspectives of looking at global issues. The personal growth this generates is immeasurable.
                        Students typically return home with more clarity in their academic and career goals.
                        Studies also show that students who study abroad tend to be more motivated to complete
                        their academic degree.
                     
                     
                     Students at the University of Memphis tend not to study abroad as much as their counterparts
                        at other universities. Many parents and students may fear the unknown, or they may
                        not understand its value because no one in their family has had a similar experience.
                        These are common thoughts and fears; however, the world is changing, and students
                        must keep up with their peers to be competitive as they venture off to obtain their
                        first job.
                     
                     
                     Will my child be taking actual courses and receiving credit or will they be traveling
                              independently? Our study abroad programs are academically rigorous programs designed to provide students
                        with an international experience while earning credits. Students should not look at
                        studying abroad as a trip or vacation. Students are expected to attend all classes
                        and dedicate time to studying just as if they were taking a course at home. Semester
                        students typically have more time to travel independently during school holidays,
                        long weekends, etc., but summer programs are intensive and typically require students
                        to stay close to school. If possible, summer program participants might elect to arrive
                        early or stay for a time after their program to complete their desired independent
                        travels.
                     
                     
                     Students are responsible prior to leaving the USA to complete the Transfer Credit
                        Request form, which is a form that explains how the courses they plan to take will
                        transfer back to Memphis. All students are strongly encouraged to speak with their
                        academic advisors regarding required courses for their degree. Most students who study
                        abroad take courses that count towards their degree requirements, but some students
                        choose to go simply for the experience or will take an extra course on language or
                        local culture.
                     
                     
                     My child has never left the USA before. Are they a good candidate to study abroad? While studying abroad is an excellent opportunity for all students, and especially
                        important for students who have never left the USA before, it is not recommended for
                        all students. Please schedule a meeting with an advisor at the Study Abroad office
                        to discuss any concerns you have about your child studying abroad. We will be happy
                        to help you determine if your child is a good candidate for studying abroad.
                     
                     
                     I never studied abroad, and my career path turned out fine. Why is it important for
                              today's students to study abroad? Today's world and economy are very different than in previous generations. Required
                        job skills today include intercultural communication skills, independent‐thinking
                        and maturity to take initiative, and adaptability, as job descriptions can change.
                        The world has never been more connected than it has before, and the career aspect
                        to this is that employers now expect students to have these skills before they apply
                        for a job and not learn them on the job.
                     
                     
                     Is studying abroad safe? Studying abroad is usually equally as safe as living at home. Granted, you must take
                        into consideration cultural differences. For example, in Europe, pick‐pocketing is
                        a typical crime, but shootings and terror threats typically are much less common than
                        in the USA. Remember, the news always depicts the bad, and this can skew many Americans'
                        thinking of what life is like in different countries. Students need to be smart: keep
                        an eye on surroundings, keep money and valuables on their person and not flaunt expensive
                        pieces of technology or leave it unattended, etc. Students should also observe the
                        people of their host country carefully to see how they act, carry themselves, etc.,
                        and blend in to their new host culture as much as possible. Not only does this enhance
                        their cultural experience, but it also can help them be less of a target for petty
                        theft.
                     
                     
                     The Study Abroad Office will provide orientation for all students studying abroad
                        and will discuss issues of health and safety while abroad with students. In addition,
                        you as the parent must talk to your student about any concerns you have for their
                        safety. You may schedule an appointment with your student to meet with a study abroad
                        advisor to discuss any concerns you have. Although we are unable to guarantee your
                        student's safety, we will be able to provide good advice as well as resources about
                        safety in the host country to minimize any risks.
                     
                     
                     When is the best time within a degree program to study abroad? It depends on each student's academic plan. Typically, sophomore year or early junior
                        year are the best times to spend a semester abroad. For a summer program, there is
                        much more flexibility.
                     
                     
                     Can I meet the study abroad advisor? We love to meet with parents. Ask your child to schedule an advising appointment,
                        and then come along to your child's appointment.
                     
                     
                     FINANCING STUDY ABROAD
                     
                     How much does it cost to study abroad? The answer to this question varies greatly by program. It is most cost‐efficient to
                        do a semester abroad, as students have the most access to financial aid. However,
                        there are some very cost‐efficient programs in the summer and some financial aid does
                        exist for summer programs. Summer programs typically range from $2000 ‐ $5000 depending
                        on the location, the number of credits, the type of program and services offered.
                        Semester programs can range from the cost of UofM tuition (plus room and board fees)
                        to about $19,000 on the very high end. Many semester programs are about the cost of
                        paying 15 credit hours of Memphis tuition, a semester living on campus in the Carpenter
                        Complex apartments and the cost of a full meal plan. Remember that different programs
                        include different benefits. Be sure to ask your student if they know what is included
                        in the program price and what is not.
                     
                     
                     Is financial aid is available? Students are (typically) able to use the financial aid they receive during the semester
                        at UofM towards their semester overseas. Students must be sure they have completed
                        their FAFSA forms by the annual deadline. Remember, studying abroad is an investment,
                        just as a college education is, and it would be very rare to have a study abroad program
                        fully funded on scholarships alone. Students do need to contribute either through
                        loans or personal funds. Below is a list of useable financial aid/scholarships our
                        students take advantage of. Some options below apply to summer programs as well as
                        semester programs.
                     
                     
                     Merit Scholarship and its study abroad stipend (Stipend may be used towards semester
                        or summer program) Presidential Scholarship and its study abroad stipend (Stipend may be used towards
                        semester or summer program) Provost Scholarship Valedictorian Scholarship Dean's Scholarship Emerging Leaders Scholarship First Scholars Scholarship Community College Transfer Scholarship Hope Scholarship – (May be used for summer programs but there are specific requirements
                        to qualify) Pell Grant Student Loans (subsidized and unsubsidized – Possible to use for summer programs depending
                        on eligibility) Memphis Study Abroad Scholarship (semester and summer awards) Scholarships through various academic departments Gilman Scholarship (Competitive Department of State Scholarship for Pell Grant recipients) Boren Scholarship (Competitive National Scholarship for students interested in National
                        Security Issues) Scholarships for students participating on Provider Programs Additional National scholarships depending on field of study, location, GPA, etc. Please visit our website at memphis.edu/abroad/funding/ for more information on available scholarships or schedule an appointment with a
                        study abroad advisor.
                     
                     
                     Does it cost more if my child is an out of state student? All students are charged in‐state tuition, or pay the same program cost as in‐state
                        students when studying abroad. Is it worth it for my child to take out an extra loan for this experience? Students will have to look at their personal circumstances to decide what is best
                        for them. If you ask those who have completed a study abroad experience, especially
                        a semester program, the resounding answer is, 'Yes! Take out a small student loan
                        if you need it.' It is very difficult to put a price on the value of studying abroad.
                     
                     
                     How do we submit payment for study abroad programs? Students and parents make their payments through their MyMemphis TigerXpress account,
                        just as they would normally pay their tuition and fees and follow the payment deadlines
                        set up by the Bursar's office. Some programs will have extra fees for things such
                        as lab fees, optional field trips, housing deposits, etc., that will be paid directly
                        to the school/landlord upon arrival.
                     
                     
                     APPLICATION PROCESS AND PREPARING TO STUDY ABROAD
                     
                     How do students apply? Students should meet with a study abroad advisor to discuss their program choice.
                        At this meeting, the study abroad advisor will go over the Memphis online application,
                        discuss scholarship applications, and any additional applications needed for the specific
                        program the student is applying to. Parents are welcome to come to this and any advising
                        appointment.
                     
                     
                     How involved should I be in the study abroad application process? Parents are an important part of their child's life. All students will do much better
                        on their program if they have the support of their parents and family members. We
                        encourage parents to ask their student questions about the program or come along to
                        the advising appointment. We also understand all parents want to know that their child
                        is safe and on a reputable program.
                     
                     
                     When it comes to the application process, encouragement and a little help can serve
                        as an introduction to the study abroad experience, where students will be expected
                        to be more independent. Typically, students who have only a little help in the application/visa
                        process will be more successful at adapting to their program once abroad. This is
                        because students who complete most items on their own and are responsible for meeting
                        the deadlines in the application process already have developed some responsibility,
                        independence, and understanding that deadlines and knowing your program are important.
                        These skills carry over into their study abroad experience, as students will not be
                        able to rely on their parents for every question that will come up. Parents do need
                        to take a step back and "let go" of their children to an extent when they study abroad
                        and trust that their children will begin their adjustment into adulthood. Studying
                        abroad could be a great way to start this process.
                     
                     
                     What items are needed to apply to study abroad? A study abroad application typically varies by program, but some items are present
                        in all applications. For example, all students will need to digitally sign items that
                        talk about the non‐refundable application fee, Memphis study abroad policies, including
                        drug and refund policies, etc. All programs will require 2 letters of recommendation
                        from Memphis faculty or staff. Students also mark off that they have read information
                        on scholarships, such as the Memphis study abroad scholarship and Hope scholarship.
                        Students will complete a budget form, upload transcripts, emergency treatment forms,
                        emergency contact information, etc. The online application is set up as a check list
                        so students can quickly see what has been completed and what is missing.
                     
                     
                     What about passports? Passports serve as an official identification while traveling to show proof of U.S.
                        citizenship. Passports are also needed before leaving and entering almost every country.
                        Your student will need to have a passport to leave and return to the United States.
                        The study abroad office provides students with information on applying for a first
                        passport on their website at: http://travel.state.gov/content/passports/english/passports/first-time.html . The application process takes about 6 weeks on average after the application has
                        been submitted; however, we have seen it take just over 2 months, so students should
                        apply for their passport when they apply for the program, if not earlier.
                     
                     
                     What about visas? A visa is a legal document granted by a foreign consulate that gives permission for
                        the student to study and live in the foreign country. Most summer program participants
                        do not need a visa, but there are a few exceptions. As a general rule, semester students
                        require a visa. The study abroad office can help students find out if they need a
                        visa and direct them to resources, such as the consulate of their host country abroad.
                        The study abroad office will offer some assistance; however, it is the student's responsibility
                        to obtain their visa. Students should contact the consulate directly to confirm they
                        are aware of all requirements. Students typically work on their visa after they are
                        accepted to the program, as they will need to provide documents from the host institution
                        to obtain the visa. Some countries require students to have a visa in‐person interview
                        at the consulate, which may mean a trip to Washington, D.C., Houston, Chicago, Miami,
                        New Orleans, etc. For countries that require this, you will want to budget the cost
                        of this domestic trip in your total program price. While visa applications can be
                        a lot of work depending on the country, the sense of excitement and accomplishment
                        felt by students after receiving their visas further prepares students for their study
                        abroad experience.
                     
                     
                     What should my child do health wise to prepare for overseas travel? All students will complete a health questionnaire as part of their application. This
                        is important so that any potential concerns can be addressed before departure. This
                        also helps students be prepared and allows them to discuss any concerns they may have.
                        If a student has a medical condition or has had significant medical issues within
                        the past three years, students may be asked to obtain a letter from their doctor clearing
                        them to study abroad.
                     
                     
                     Some items we recommend doing before departure:
                     
                     Check the CDC webpage ( www.cdc.gov ) to be sure your student is up to date on all current recommended vaccinations and
                        to see if there are any additional recommendations of immunizations for travel to
                        their specific destination. Have a complete physical before departure – it is better to learn of any potential
                        concerns before than after you have left the USA. Have a complete dental check‐up and be sure any cavities are filled/taken care of
                        before departure. Most international health insurances have very limited dental coverage.
                        While dental care may be cheaper abroad in some locations, students are much more
                        comfortable seeing their own dentist in their home country. What a student may consider
                        a minor toothache can quickly escalate to excruciating pain within a few weeks or
                        days, so seeing a dentist is very important. Understand that mental health care is not as popular and not as wide‐spread as it
                        is in the USA. If your child has a mental health or psychological concern, it is best
                        to discuss how your student will handle the increased level of stress, new environments,
                        etc., as culture shock can cause previously dormant symptoms to reappear overnight.
                        While this may cause you to worry, students who have a realistic plan before they
                        leave on how to deal with any potential issues that may surface tend to have very
                        successful programs.
                     
                     
                     Obtain enough prescription medication for your entire program. Keep in mind that some
                        prescription drugs that are legal in the USA are illegal in other countries. If this
                        is the case, discuss with your doctor other medication options or check with the consulate
                        to see if they have a process to allow patients with these types of drugs to take
                        them into the country. Remember, students are responsible to follow the laws of the
                        host country while they are there.
                     
                     
                     All that information is great, but what if there is a medical emergency while abroad? Most programs have onsite staff that are available to assist students with any concern.
                        Usually, students receive information at their arrival orientation for local hospitals,
                        medical facilities, and emergency contacts. Some programs also have 24/7 phone numbers
                        for students/parents to call if there is a true emergency.
                     
                     
                     Are students required to have international health insurance? All students are required to purchase international health insurance and must provide
                        proof of coverage to the Study Abroad Office before starting their program. If a student's
                        current insurance covers them abroad, they may use their current insurance. You should
                        call your provider and ask what the coverage is in the student's intended country
                        along with any country the student plans to travel to. If their insurance does not
                        cover them abroad, or if the coverage offered abroad is insufficient, you will need
                        to purchase international health insurance. International health insurance is very
                        reasonably priced and a lot cheaper than American insurance. Typically students pay
                        between $40‐$45 per month for coverage. Students can find resources on international
                        health insurance by inquiring at the study abroad office or in the student handbook
                        for study abroad.
                     
                     
                     Are there any government websites that can provide information on the country and
                              culture my child is going to? We recommend all students read the country information page found on the Department
                        of State Website: http://travel.state.gov/ and register their travel with the Department
                        of State STEP program (found on the same website) which will ensure students will
                        receive alerts if an emergency should arise in their host country. This site is also
                        a good source of information for US citizens in an international emergency.
                     
                     
                     What if my child has never been on a plane before? Will they be able to get around
                              okay in airports? Is there anyone who can help make sure the plane ticket purchased
                              is correct for the selected program? Many of our students have never flown before let alone purchased airline tickets.
                        Your child's study abroad advisor can assist them in this process. We know what things
                        to look for to be sure students will have enough connection time, no overnight layovers,
                        no airport changes in the same city, arriving on the correct date, etc. Students are
                        welcome to set up an appointment for assistance in purchasing their flights. Once
                        at the airport, students may be able to obtain assistance from airport and airline
                        staff members to help direct students to where they need to go. Even in foreign countries,
                        it is the norm for airline workers to have a working knowledge of English. Once tickets
                        have been booked, students will need to check with each airline's website to learn
                        about baggage weight allowances, extra fees for extra bags, or any other miscellaneous
                        items. Students should also look on the TSA website to be sure they understand policies
                        such as the amount of liquids and gels that can be carried on an airplane. Ask your
                        student to inquire at the Study Abroad Office if there are other students traveling
                        to the same location. We will be happy to introduce students going to the same destination
                        so they can travel together.
                     
                     
                     How do students use money abroad? This will vary by student, program, and location. First of all, it is a good idea
                        to convert some money to the local currency before you leave. You can do this at banks
                        (some require an early notice) or at the airport. You never know if you will need
                        cash upon arrival for an unexpected situation. We also strongly recommend that students
                        have a credit card they can use abroad. Students can apply before they go abroad or
                        use one they already have, and in either case they should speak with the credit card
                        company to learn if there are any fees to use it abroad and obtain a pin that they
                        can use to withdraw money from ATMs. Remember, that while withdrawing money from ATMs
                        is often the most convenient way to obtain local currency, your credit card company
                        or bank may charge a fee for this as well as the ATM abroad. Other options include
                        traveler's checks or cash, but please remember that if lost or stolen, cash is typically
                        never recovered. Also, if students display large amounts of cash in any currency,
                        they may make themselves a target for pick pocketing or theft. It also would be a
                        good idea to discuss how the credit card bills will be paid. One option might be to
                        have the parent receive the bills and send the payment. Another option could be students
                        receive online statements and make payments online. Whatever you decide, always make
                        sure your child has a plan B for money in case their wallet is lost or stolen. Students
                        are advised not to keep all money and credit cards in one place. All forms of money
                        should be in their carry‐on purse or suitcase when flying. On arrival at the host
                        country students may open a bank account to deposit their money in or keep it in a
                        locked suitcase at their residence. Ultimately, your child is responsible for their
                        own money while abroad. If you are not confident in your child's ability to keep their
                        funds safe, then travelers' checks may be an option to consider for travel.
                     
                     
                     What should students pack in their suitcases? Students should travel as lightly as possible and only take what they need. Clothing
                        should be able to be washed and line dried, as most cultures abroad do not use dryers.
                        It is also smart to pack clothing that can be layered, especially for students going
                        to a location with changing seasons or a significantly different climate, as students
                        will eventually adapt to the new temperatures. A detailed list can be found in the
                        Pre‐departure Student Handbook that all students receive at the pre‐departure orientation.
                        As a general rule, if you will be gone for a semester or longer, pack as if you'll
                        be gone up to 2 weeks.
                     
                     
                     What should my child pack in their carry‐on? A student's carry‐on is essentially a mini‐necessity pack. Students will need to bring
                        their passports, IDs, visas, and any important health documentation/prescriptions
                        in their carry‐ons. It's also recommended to have copies of these important documents
                        both with the student and at home with the parents. Students should have phone numbers
                        for their program and their airline. Bring one full change of clothes along with a
                        sweatshirt or coat – airplanes can be a bit cold. It's a good idea for student to
                        bring some snacks in their carry‐on, as international flights are long and may only
                        serve one meal. Finally, pack some things to do while flying or during layovers, such
                        as music players, books, magazines, program materials to read, etc.
                     
                     
                     WHILE ABROAD
                     
                     How do I make sure my child is okay when they are overseas? Here is where sound planning and knowing as much about the program before going abroad
                        kick into action. The more students have read about the program, host country, and
                        culture, the better prepared students are to handle the new experiences that come
                        to them. This can be the most difficult part for parents, as for many parents, this
                        will be the first time their children are really independent. Parents need to trust
                        their children to make their own decisions when it comes to their studies, communication,
                        making friends, and handling any unexpected situation. When students arrive, most
                        programs provide an orientation where students are given the on‐site emergency contact
                        information and basic cultural differences are discussed. This orientation is very
                        important in making sure students have the tools needed to succeed abroad. Some summer
                        programs have a University of Memphis faculty member meeting the students for the
                        program, in which case the professor would be the main contact for student questions.
                        We encourage all students to get in touch with their family after they arrive (keep
                        in mind that depending on the location, program, and student, this might be within
                        24 hours of arrival or a few days after arrival) to let them know they are on site
                        and all is well. Parents may contact the study abroad office if they have difficulty
                        contacting their student and we will assist in making contact.
                     
                     
                     What is culture shock? It is very important that parents are aware of and understand the process of culture
                        shock. When a person leaves everything they know behind, including people, food, city,
                        and cultural norms, and goes to a completely new environment, there is always going
                        to be a sense of shock. Students will be confronted with new norms, people, experiences,
                        and assumptions non‐stop, and this can be overwhelming at first. Culture shock is
                        a process that every student will experience when studying abroad; however, culture
                        shock is not experienced the same way for every student. Each participant's adaptation
                        will be different, and that is okay.
                     
                     
                     Think of culture shock as a roller‐coaster. There are highs and lows. You know they
                        are coming, but until you are at each point, you don't know exactly what it will feel
                        like. When students first arrive, students are very excited and taking everything
                        in. They just landed in Rome! Shanghai! London! San Jose! This had been a dream for
                        many students for so long and now they are actually there. After a while, the newness
                        wears off, and students start to miss home. More correctly stated, students start
                        to miss being in a familiar environment. It's nice to know what types of food you'll
                        eat for dinner, or see your family members in the morning, or go to your favorite
                        café on your way to school. This stage is called withdrawal and typically is a combination
                        of homesickness and frustration at not understanding the host culture and/or language.
                        It can be frustrating to always have to convert your money in your head or not understand
                        why people mob around a ticket booth instead of in a single file line. Students might
                        even call home in tears because it feels overwhelming, or they might say, "I don't
                        like it here; I want to come home." Parents can help by listening to their child's
                        observations and encouraging them. It also is a big help to focus on the student and
                        not on what is going on back at home. Students will get through this stage, whether
                        it happens after 3 weeks of being abroad or 2 months after being abroad – the timing
                        will be different for everyone. If students say they want to come home, remind them
                        why they wanted to study abroad in the first place, and that it is normal to have
                        low days while they are adjusting. Acknowledging what your child is going through
                        and encouraging them to get involved in the community, make new friends, and experience
                        as many things as possible can be a huge help! The next stage is adaptation. At this
                        point, students are becoming more familiar with their new environment. While students
                        might prefer their home culture's way of doing certain things, students will understand
                        that their host‐culture's way of doing things is not bad, just different and may even
                        make more sense. At this stage, students see the value in making connections with
                        new people and experiencing as much as possible as they know the end of their time
                        abroad will come more quickly than they realize. Students also have figured out how
                        to live and act as a local. Being mistaken as a local might just be the highest compliment
                        your child might receive! Finally, some students may reach the biculturalism stage.
                        Not all students reach this point, as significant time living in the culture is usually
                        required. However, students studying abroad for a semester or year may. At this stage,
                        students are able to live comfortably and blend in in both their home culture and
                        host culture.
                     
                     
                     How do I communicate with them when they are abroad? Communication can take many forms, including email, instant messaging, Skype, or phone
                        calls home. Phone calls can be very expensive depending on each country's exchange
                        rates, so international calling cards can be a cheaper alternative. Skype, email,
                        and instant messaging are free! It is important that parents understand their role
                        in their student's successful adaptation to their new culture. It is recommended that
                        communicating with friends or family at home be limited to a few hours per week. A
                        good idea is to set up a specific day and time when the student will be calling/Skyping
                        home so that everyone knows when to expect the call. Limiting communication like this
                        actually greatly benefits the student. If students are constantly in contact with
                        or thinking about what is going on at home, they have one foot in their new country
                        and one foot in the USA. This constant back and forth makes it very difficult for
                        students to embrace and adapt to their new surroundings. While students may think
                        it will help their homesickness to call home, the comfort from the call is usually
                        short lived, and students actually start to miss home more than they did before the
                        call. On the other hand, students that focus on their current life in their new culture
                        and get involved in local activities adapt much more quickly, which in turn lessens
                        homesickness. When parents speak with their child, parents should focus on what their
                        child is doing abroad. What was your class like?What new friends are you making? Have
                        you been to any cool restaurants? Questions such as these help students to focus on
                        their current life and not think about things they might be missing back at home.
                        If you as a parent go on and on about all the fun things happening at home or talk
                        in depth about things family members are doing, this can contribute to homesickness
                        and prevent your child from moving through the stages of culture shock as quickly
                        as possible.
                     
                     
                     If my child has a problem and needs help solving it, who should they contact? Students should contact the program coordinator or on‐site program staff. Students
                        will be given this information upon arrival. On‐site staff is the quickest way for
                        your child to receive help and are best equipped to provide assistance at the location.
                        Students are also welcome to contact their study abroad advisor at the University
                        of Memphis if they feel they are having difficulty solving their concern with the
                        on‐site staff.
                     
                     
                     What if students will miss registration deadlines or other university deadlines while
                              abroad? Students can register for next term's courses while abroad using their online MyMemphis
                        account. It is recommended that students speak with their academic advisor prior to
                        going abroad to discuss possible course options and obtain guidance before they leave.
                        Should any questions come up during registration, students can email their academic
                        advisor.
                     
                     
                     RETURNING TO THE USA AFTER STUDYING ABROAD
                     
                     What is re‐entry shock? Re‐entry shock is often thought of as reverse culture shock. Re‐entry shock occurs
                        when a student returns home and realizes that their world at home has changed and
                        it is not the same as when they left. This can come in the form of relationships,
                        changes in environment, such as a home remodel or family move, and the reality that
                        they are no longer abroad. Students will miss people, places, food, and activities
                        they experienced while studying abroad. A hard hitting reality many students will
                        experience is that public transportation in the USA is significantly lacking compared
                        to other countries. Students can no longer hop on a train or bus and go travel or
                        see places as easily as they could while abroad. It is also important to note that
                        students who spent a semester or year abroad are likely to have more pronounced reentry
                        shock as they had adapted more fully to life abroad.
                     
                     
                     It is important that parents keep in mind that students have just come from an environment
                        where they had to be very independent and rely on themselves. When students return
                        to their parents' home and are expected to do their chores, follow household rules,
                        and give up some of their independence they had while abroad, it is very common for
                        students to be frustrated. Students also may experience difficulty expressing their
                        thoughts and feelings because it is very difficult to describe such an incredible
                        study abroad experience to someone who was not there or does not have a similar experience
                        to relate to. This can cause communication breakdown and frustration for both students
                        and parents. Parents can help by listening to their students and showing a genuine
                        interest in learning about their experience abroad. The important thing for parents
                        to remember is that students will adjust; it just takes time. The adjustment period
                        requires patience and understanding from parents as well as the knowledge from students
                        that they are experiencing re‐entry shock and accepting this fact. Remember, most
                        students are at least a little prepared for culture shock because they were expecting
                        it; however, most students do not anticipate re‐entry shock, so it can be more surprising
                        and more difficult to deal with. Yet, it is part of the study abroad process, and
                        students will come out with a much deeper understand of their home culture, host culture,
                        and how each part of their experience connects them to people of different cultures.
                     
                     
                     What is the process for making sure credit earned abroad is added to their transcript? Before students left to go overseas, they completed a Transfer Credit Request (TCR) form . At the end of the program and before they return home, students should confirm with
                        the host institution that their official transcript from their study abroad program
                        will be mailed directly to the address below:
                     
                     
                     University of Memphis Study Abroad Office 102 Brister Hall Memphis, TN 38152
                     
                     
                     Students will be notified when we receive the transcript, and at that time, students
                        will set up an appointment with the Admissions Office to complete the transfer process.
                     
                     
                     Can students study abroad again? Students may study abroad again, especially if the first experience was a short term
                        program. They may feel more confident to participate in a semester or yearlong program.
                        Sometimes a student may choose to study in a different country or location. The important
                        issue is for students to make sure they will be able to enroll in the necessary courses
                        abroad so they do not delay their graduation.
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Resources
                        
                           
                              Passport and Visa
                              Study Abroad Wiki
                              Parents
                              Study Abroad Ambassadors
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Log-In
                              Log-In to your application
                           
                           
                              Search Programs
                              Search Study Abroad programs
                           
                           
                              Scholarships
                              Search scholarship opportunities for Study Abroad
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Email, call or schedule appointments
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 5/19/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/abroad/resources/parents.php
