http://www.memphis.edu/law/admissions/faq.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Admissions
                        Programs
                        Current Students
                        Faculty
                        Careers
                        Library
                     
                     
                        
                           Admissions
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 Guide to Applying
                                       Comprehensive Application Guide
                                       LSAT Prep
                                       Transfer Information
                                       TN Inst. for PreLaw (TIP)
                                       Part-Time Program
                                       Schedule a Visit
                                       Academic Curriculum
                                       Apply Now
                                       Check Application Status
                                    
                                 
                                 Stats, Facts and Profile
                                       Profile and Stats Overview
                                       Class Profile Factsheet
                                       2016 Viewbook
                                       Request a Viewbook
                                       Bragging Points
                                    
                                 
                                 Tuition, Scholarships, Financial Aid
                                       Overview of Costs
                                       Tuition Information
                                       Financial Aid
                                       Scholarships
                                       Tuition Payment
                                    
                                 
                                 Academic Curriculum
                                 Experiential Learning
                                 Life in Memphis
                                       Memphis-The City
                                       Neighborhoods
                                       Housing
                                       The Arts Scene
                                       Sports
                                       The Food Scene
                                       A Music Town
                                       Directions and Maps
                                    
                                 
                                 Recruiting Calendar
                                 Schedule a Visit
                                 Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
                                       
                                       FAQ List
                                       
                                       Application Information
                                       
                                       LSAT
                                       
                                       Notification and Acceptance
                                       
                                       Curriculum
                                       
                                       City of Memphis
                                    
                                 
                                 Admitted Student Information
                                 Law Bookstore
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	School of Law 
                              	
                        
                              	Admissions
                              	
                        Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) 
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     FAQ
                     
                     Feel free to contact the Law Admissions Office directly if you cannot find the answer
                        to your Frequently Asked Question.
                     
                     
                     Facts And Statistics
                     
                     
                        
                        What is the size of the entering class? The size of the 2016 entering class is 111.
                        
                        
                        What is the enrollment at the University of Memphis School of Law? Enrollment for Fall 2016 in the law school is 325. 
                        
                        
                        What are the median LSAT scores and UGPA's of enrolled students? The median LSAT score for Fall 2016 was 151 and the median undergraduate grade point
                           average was 3.24. For more specific LSAT and UGPA information, please review our profile information. This information is current as of August 15, 2016.
                        
                        
                        What is the geographic makeup of the student body? Fall 2016 entering class is the most geographically diverse class to enroll at the
                           University of Memphis. While the majority of students are from Tennessee residents,
                           there are fourteen other states represented from New York to California.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Application Process
                     
                     
                        
                        When is the application deadline? The priority application deadline for first-year applicant is March 15th.
                        
                        
                        Are letters of recommendation required? Letters of recommendation are not required at the University of Memphis School of
                           Law, but applicants are encouraged to submit up to three letters of recommendation.
                           Recommendation letters should be written by former professors, instructors, or other
                           professionals who can provide relevant information on the applicant's intellectual
                           ability, academic performance, and potential for success in law school. Letters from
                           personal or family friends or social acquaintances which provide only minimal information
                           on an applicant's abilities are not considered helpful. We prefer the letters or evaluations
                           be submitted with your CAS report. Please note LSAC does NOT automatically send your
                           letters of recommendation with the CAS report. The applicant will not be able to read
                           the letter(s) but they will be able to see they have been received as LSAC will bank
                           the letters in their account. Applicants must login to their account and assign their
                           letters to the specific schools they wish to receive the letter.
                        
                        
                        Do you grant interviews? The Law Admissions Office does not conduct evaluative interviews for the purpose
                           of admission, but applicants are welcome to visit the law school, meet with a member
                           of the admissions staff, observe a class, and take a tour with a student guide. To
                           arrange a visit, contact the Law Admissions Office at lawadmissions@memphis.edu or 901.678.5403.
                        
                        
                        What is the application fee? For the first-time applicants, there is no application fee. For transfer or visitor
                           students, the fee is $25.
                        
                        
                        What are some factors considered by the admissions committee? Our admissions process seeks those applicants with the greatest chance for success,
                           both in their education and in their future careers. As a result, admission into the
                           Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law is competitive, and many different factors are considered
                           in admissions decisions. To be considered for admission, applicants must have completed
                           or be in the process of completing a bachelor's degree from an accredited four-year
                           institution or the foreign equivalent and must have an LSAT score current in five
                           years, so those applying for Fall 2016 must have a LSAT taken from June 2012 through
                           February 2017. We look closely at the admission index, which is based on the applicant's
                           undergraduate GPA and the applicant's highest LSAT score. Applicants are encouraged
                           to explain, in an addendum, any variance in their LSAT scores. Our application requires
                           a personal statement and the CAS report.
                        
                        
                        Other factors considered in the admissions process include overall academic record,
                           extracurricular activities, community involvement, employment, and other life experiences.
                           Applicants are encouraged to submit letters of recommendation or evaluations addressing
                           their potential for academic success.
                        
                        
                        As a publicly assisted institution, Tennessee residents may be given preference in
                           selection; however, non-resident applicants are encouraged to apply. Non-resident
                           applicants will be asked to answer a series of simple questions about their interests
                           and reasons for applying to the University of Memphis School of Law. The School of
                           Law recognizes the benefits of diversity in the classroom. We strive to create a student
                           body representative of a wide range of social, economic, and ethnic backgrounds. In
                           the personal statement, applicants are encouraged to identify ways in which they might
                           contribute to the diversity of the law school.
                        
                        
                        How is residency determined? At the University of Memphis, residency is determined using the regulations established
                           by the Tennessee Board of Regents. An initial determination of residency is made based
                           on the information submitted on the law school application. For more information on
                           residency classification, please contact the Admissions Office at 901.678.5403.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Law School Admission Test
                     
                     
                        
                        What is the LSAT exam and where do I get information about the exam? The Law School Admission Test (LSAT) is a half-day standardized test required for
                           admission to all ABA accredited law schools. It provides a standard measure of acquired
                           reading, verbal reasoning and analytical skills that law schools can use as one of
                           several factors in assessing applicants. The test is administered four times a year
                           at hundreds of locations around the world. For more information on the LSAT exam,
                           please consult LSAC .
                        
                        
                        Should I prepare for the LSAT exam? There are many different ways to approach the Law School Admission Test. Applicants
                           are encouraged to prepare for the LSAT. More information on preparing for the LSAT
                           can be found on LSAC's website.
                        
                        
                        What happens if I retake the LSAT? For Fall 2017 admission, LSAT scores taken June 2012 or later will be reviewed for
                           admission to the University of Memphis School of Law. If the applicant takes the LSAT
                           more than once, the highest LSAT score will be used in the admissions index. Applicants
                           are encouraged to explain, in a separate statement, any variance in their LSAT scores.
                        
                        
                        Must I register with Credential Assembly Service (CAS)? Yes. All ABA-approved law schools, including the University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys
                           School of Law, and several non-ABA-approved schools, require an applicant to register
                           with the Credential Assembly Service (CAS). For more information on the CAS, please
                           contact the Law School Admissions Council . 
                        
                        
                        The CAS provides a service, including a five year subscription, that prepares and
                           provides a report for each law school to which you apply. The report contains information
                           that is important in the law school admissions process. There is a separate charge
                           for each report you have sent. Your report will include:
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           An undergraduate academic summary
                           
                           Copies of all undergraduate, graduate and law school transcripts
                           
                           LSAT scores and writing sample copies
                           
                           Copies of Letters of Recommendation, if processed by LSAC
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Notification and Acceptance
                     
                     
                        
                        How can I check the status of my application? It is the applicant's responsibility to check on the status of his or her application.
                           Our online application is available through LSAC . Applicants applying to the University of Memphis School of Law will receive an email
                           with a link to our website and a code to establish an account to check the status
                           of their application. Henceforth, the applicant can check their Memphis application
                           status online. Applicants will also receive an email once the application is complete.
                           Once a decision is rendered, the online status will be updated accordingly. Final
                           decisions are mailed to the applicant's current address. Most decisions are made between
                           January and April.
                        
                        
                        When are applicants notified of admission decisions? Applicants are typically notified of admission decisions between January and April.
                           Written notification letters are mailed to the applicant's current address.
                        
                        
                        What is the deposit deadline and what is the amount of the deposit? The deposit deadline is mid-April or two weeks after notification, whichever is later.
                           The deposit is $250.00, which is not refundable. If the applicant matriculates at
                           the University of Memphis School of Law, $200 of the deposit is credited to his or
                           her fall tuition. The remaining $50.00 is an orientation fee.
                        
                        
                        May I defer my acceptance? Yes, deferrals are granted on an individual basis. You must submit in writing a formal
                           request indicating your reason for seeking a deferral. Deferrals are granted for one
                           academic year.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Curriculum
                     
                     
                        
                        Are faculty members accessible to students? The Faculty of Law at the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law consists of 24 academic
                           lawyers dedicated to excellent classroom instruction and to student professional development,
                           meaningful scholarship, and distinguished service to the community and the legal profession.
                           These men and women offer through their courses a rich and varied curriculum designed
                           to educate students and prepare them for a variety of career opportunities after graduation.
                           Faculty members maintain an "open-door" policy, making them available to students.
                           Faculty members are eager to aid students in their legal education and pursuit of
                           a legal career.
                        
                        
                        What clinical opportunities are available? The School of Law has been operating the University of Memphis Legal Clinic for more
                           than 20 years. The legal clinics to promote the development of good lawyering skills
                           and bridge the connection between legal theory and legal practice by offering the
                           opportunity to represent actual clients under close clinical faculty supervision. Students
                           interview clients, conduct factual and legal investigations, provide client counseling,
                           negotiate, and draft relevant documents and pleadings. Students also may prepare and
                           try civil cases in one of nine different clinics. Please review the University of Memphis Legal Clinic  for more information.
                        
                        
                        What is the average course load? The school operates on the semester system and requires 90 semester hours for the
                           Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree. A full-time student is required to enroll in at least
                           12 hours each semester, and the average course load is usually between 14 and 16 hours
                           per semester. Students in the full-time program normally graduate in three years.
                        
                        
                        Is there summer school? Summer classes are available, but they are not mandatory. Some students graduate
                           after five semesters and two summer sessions of full-time study.
                        
                        
                        Does Memphis have any areas of concentration or Certificate Programs? The upper-level curriculum permits students to take courses in specialty areas of
                           law, develop fundamental lawyering skills, and concentrate their legal education in
                           particular areas of interest. The University of Memphis offers four certificate programs
                           in the areas of Advocacy, Business Law, Health Law, and Tax. To learn more about these
                           Certificate Programs, please review Certificate Program .
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Admissions
                        
                           
                              
                              
                              Guide to Applying
                                    Comprehensive Application Guide
                                    LSAT Prep
                                    Transfer Information
                                    TN Inst. for PreLaw (TIP)
                                    Part-Time Program
                                    Schedule a Visit
                                    Academic Curriculum
                                    Apply Now
                                    Check Application Status
                                 
                              
                              Stats, Facts and Profile
                                    Profile and Stats Overview
                                    Class Profile Factsheet
                                    2016 Viewbook
                                    Request a Viewbook
                                    Bragging Points
                                 
                              
                              Tuition, Scholarships, Financial Aid
                                    Overview of Costs
                                    Tuition Information
                                    Financial Aid
                                    Scholarships
                                    Tuition Payment
                                 
                              
                              Academic Curriculum
                              Experiential Learning
                              Life in Memphis
                                    Memphis-The City
                                    Neighborhoods
                                    Housing
                                    The Arts Scene
                                    Sports
                                    The Food Scene
                                    A Music Town
                                    Directions and Maps
                                 
                              
                              Recruiting Calendar
                              Schedule a Visit
                              Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
                                    
                                    FAQ List
                                    
                                    Application Information
                                    
                                    LSAT
                                    
                                    Notification and Acceptance
                                    
                                    Curriculum
                                    
                                    City of Memphis
                                 
                              
                              Admitted Student Information
                              Law Bookstore
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply to Memphis Law
                              
                           
                           
                              News & Events
                              
                           
                           
                              Alumni & Support
                              
                           
                           
                              ABA Required Disclosures
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/1/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/law/admissions/faq.php
