http://www.memphis.edu/anthropology/graduate/dept-comprehensive-exams.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Anthropology
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Undergraduate
                        Graduate
                        People
                        Student Life
                        Resources
                     
                     
                        
                           Graduate Resources
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Current Students
                                 Future Students
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Department of Anthropology
                              	
                        
                              	Graduate
                              	
                         Department Comprehensive Exams
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Department Comprehensive Exams
                     
                     A comprehensive examination is required of all candidates for the Master of Arts in
                        Anthropology, to assess Learning Goals (see appendix). The exams may be taken by students
                        in good standing (minimum GPA 3.0) after completing all required core and concentration
                        courses or the term when final requirements are taken. Comprehensives should be taken
                        during or after the completion of the practicum, but can be taken before completion
                        of the practicum in certain circumstances.  
                     
                     
                     Comprehensives are held twice during each academic year: once in the fall and once
                        in the spring. The Department faculty sets exam schedules at the start of each semester.
                        Written examinations are held over a two-day period. The oral examination takes place
                        on a third day. 
                     
                     
                     The exam consists of two portions: The first is a set of written exams completed over
                        two days, focused on the core courses and on each student's specific interests and
                        program of study. The oral portion of comprehensive exams occurs on Day 3, which is
                        scheduled approximately a week after the written exams are completed. Candidates are
                        expected to demonstrate excellence in performance throughout all portions of the exam.
                     
                     
                     Each candidate must finalize his/her committee by the beginning of the semester in
                        which comprehensives are taken. The committee consists of at least three members,
                        including a chair. Candidates must select a committee in consultation with their chair,
                        request each member's participation, and obtain their written consent to serve. Committee
                        members should have Graduate Faculty status or its equivalent (e.g., comparable professional
                        experience).  The committee chair will compile the written exam, in consultation with
                        the candidate. 
                     
                     
                     Written Examinations
                     
                     Written exam topics are to be planned out in consultation with the committee chair
                        at the start of the semester. Day 1 exams consist of two synthetic questions based
                        on the four core classes, one linking content from ANTH 7075 and 7076 (Anthropological
                        Research Methods and Data Analysis), and the other ANTH 7200 and ANTH 7255 (Anthropological
                        Theory and Applied Anthropology). Students should contact the instructors of these
                        courses for guidance on studying for the exam. Students are responsible for drafting
                        sample questions for Day 2 exams and submitting them to their committee within the
                        first month of the semester in which they plan to take comprehensive exams, and for
                        planning a meeting with their committee to discuss and refine these sample questions.
                        The committee will write the final Day 2 exam questions.
                     
                     
                     Exams are four hours in length each day. Typically, exams are held on consecutive
                        days, and run from 9 a.m. until 1 p.m. Candidates who arrive late will not receive additional time to complete the exam.
                     
                     Candidates are expected to prepare typed exam essays on computers. Requests to complete
                        essays in longhand must be approved in advance by the committee chair. A computer
                        lab will be reserved for written exams. Unauthorized individuals may not enter the
                        lab during exams. Academic misconduct of any form is not tolerated.
                     
                     
                     Students registered with Disability Resources for Students (DRS) may request special
                        accommodations for testing; provide documentation from DRS to the Graduate Coordinator
                        at the start of the semester. Flash drives, practice essays, books, articles, and
                        similar materials are forbidden. Email, internet, cell phones, and similar items must
                        remain off. No food or beverages can be consumed in the lab. Students may bring essential
                        items (e.g., prescription medication) and take breaks as needed, but candidates must
                        remain near the lab at all times; all conversation is forbidden.
                     
                     
                     Students must adhere to the University policy on academic conduct, posted online at:  memphis.edu/studentconduct/academic-misconduct/index.php.
                     
                     Typically, candidates will be provided with a packet containing their exam questions.
                           Before composing essays, candidates should create and save a file on the Desktop under
                           their surname. It is advisable to begin each essay on a new page with the candidate's
                           name and the title of the topic. It is not necessary to save each answer under a different
                           file heading.
                     
                     It is also helpful to paginate and to create a running header by surname, but neither
                        is required. It is advisable to correct spelling and grammar only after all questions
                        have been completed if time permits. Candidates are urged to save files regularly.
                        A faculty supervisor will assign candidates to computers, distribute exam packets,
                        and proctor the exam. The proctor will announce when the exam period has ended. All
                        candidates must stop writing when informed that the exam period has expired. Should
                        a problem arise, contact the main office (678-2080) or exam proctor.
                     
                     
                      All written exam essays are graded by each of the advisory committee members and
                        by the person who posed the question (if not a committee member). Written exams are
                        evaluated for (1) content (depth of detail, accuracy of detail, integration of source
                        material); (2) analysis (critical thinking, original contributions to theory and/or
                        practice, synthesis); and (3) style (clarity of writing, organization of ideas).
                     
                     
                      Passing or failing an individual question is decided by majority vote, or by the
                        evaluation of the committee chair in case of a tie. In voting decisions, committee
                        members should pay particular heed to the evaluation of the person who has posed the
                        question. Committee members are not bound by this person's evaluation.
                     
                     
                      Written exams are graded High Pass, Pass, Fail, or Conditional Pass. A conditional
                        pass may translate to Pass through successful performance in the oral examination,
                        or a student may be asked to write new essays as a take-home assignment after the
                        oral exam. A conditional pass may also translate into a Fail if the oral exam/essays
                        are deemed unsatisfactory. Any student who fails the comprehensive exam will have
                        one opportunity to retake it (both written and oral portions). 
                     
                     
                     Students may not receive more than two conditional passes on Day 1.  That is, three
                        conditional passes is equivalent to failing Day 1.  In this case, students would need
                        to retake the Day 1 exam in a subsequent semester.  No conditional passes will be
                        awarded for questions on Day 2; students either Fail or Pass Day 2 exams. If a student
                        fails Day 2 s/he would need to retake Day 2 in a subsequent semester. If a student
                        fails both Day 1 and Day 2, s/he would need to retake both written exams in a subsequent
                        semester.
                     
                     
                     Comprehensives cannot be retaken until exams are administered during the following
                        semester. 
                     
                     
                     Oral Examination
                     The purpose of the oral comprehensive exam is for students to deepen and refine their
                     analysis of key concepts with guidance from faculty, reflect on their experience in
                     the program, and address any deficiencies in their written exams.
                     
                     Orals are scheduled by the student in consultation with their committee. They should
                        follow soon after completion of the written exams. Typically, orals are 1-2 hours
                        in length and do not include a break. Any faculty member may read any written exam
                        or attend any oral. Unauthorized individuals may not attend the exam.
                     
                     
                     Normally, orals are moderated by the candidate's committee chair. During the oral,
                        committee members may ask any question deemed appropriate. Typically, questions focus
                        on the candidate's written exam responses and practicum. Overall performance on the
                        whole of the oral exam must be acceptable to the advisory committee (not more than
                        one dissenting vote is allowed).
                     
                     
                     Upon conclusion of the oral, the committee will inform the candidate of their grade
                        on all written and oral portions of the comprehensives. This will complete the comprehensive
                        examination. All comprehensive exam results (pass or fail) are reported immediately
                        and in writing to the Graduate School.
                     
                     
                     The following are guidelines for faculty and students in preparing for and running
                        oral exams:
                     
                     
                     1. Instructors of core classes and committee members should provide written feedback
                        to the committee chair in advance of the oral exam. 2. None of this written feedback will be shared with the student in advance of the
                        exam, and none of the comments should be sent to the student after the exam without
                        the permission of the commenter. 3. Committee chairs can inform students in advance of the oral exam if they need to
                        prepare to address deficiencies with particular questions. Students will not be informed
                        whether they passed or failed the written exams prior to the oral exam, since this
                        determination will be made based on committee discussion and student performance at
                        the oral exam. 4. Faculty may plan to meet a half hour before the student arrives to discuss priorities
                        for the oral exam and to develop a consensus on the evaluation of the written exam.
                     
                     
                     Comprehensive Exams, Misc.
                     
                     A student's Comprehensive examination, with the grades given, must be retained in
                        the Department files for three years. Any exceptions to the comprehensive examination
                        policies and procedures of the Department of Anthropology must be approved by the
                        student, the student's committee, the Graduate Coordinator, the Department Chair,
                        and, if necessary, the Graduate School.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Graduate Resources
                        
                           
                              
                              Current Students
                              Future Students
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Undergrads: 
                              Declare Anthropology your major!
                           
                           
                              Join the Graduate Program
                              Learn about applied and engaged anthropology!
                           
                           
                              News and Events
                              Find out what's happening in the Department of Anthropology
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Main office location and numbers, undergraduate and graduate advising
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/2/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/anthropology/graduate/dept-comprehensive-exams.php
