http://www.memphis.edu/armyrotc/cadet_resources/battalion_organization_and_responsibilities.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   		
   	
   		
   
   
   		
   		
   
   
   	
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Army Reserve Officer Training Corps
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About Us
                        Getting Started
                        Campus Life
                        Cadet Resources
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Army Reserve Officer Training Corps
                              	
                        
                              	Cadet Resources
                              	
                        Battalion Organization and Responsibilities
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                      Battalion Organization and Responsibilities
                     
                     
                     MSIVs:
                     
                     
                        
                        Cadet Battalion Commander
                        
                        Cadet Executive Officer
                        
                        Cadet Command Sergeant Major
                        
                        Cadet Battalion S1
                        
                        Cadet Battalion S3
                        
                        Cadet Battalion S4
                        
                        Platoon Tactical Officer
                        
                     
                     
                     MSIIIs:
                     
                     
                        
                        Cadet Platoon Leader
                        
                        Cadet Platoon Sergeant
                        
                        Cadet Squad Leader
                        
                     
                     
                     Ranger Challenge:
                     
                     
                        
                        Cadet Ranger Challenge Commander
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     
                      Cadet Battalion Commander
                     
                     
                     CDT Battalion Commander for the University of Memphis' Army ROTC Tiger Battalion and
                        affiliated schools is directly responsible to the Professor of Military Science for
                        the command, control, health, welfare, morale, discipline, safety, and retention of
                        all enrolled MS-I, II, III, IV, and completion cadets. Provides command guidance and
                        supervises all training, planning, and execution of battalion operations. Serves as
                        an ambassador by representing the Tiger Battalion on/off campus and briefs visiting
                        dignitaries on the status on the battalion. Promotes esprit-de-corps and is responsible
                        for implementation of the cadet mentorship and sponsorship program. Actively participates
                        in the weekly cadre training meeting by providing feedback and lessons learned from
                        the previous week's training.
                     
                     
                     Back to Top
                     
                     
                     
                      Cadet Executive Officer
                     
                     
                     CDT Battalion Executive Officer for the University of Memphis' Army ROTC Tiger Battalion
                        and affiliated schools serves as the CDT Battalion Commander's principle staff officer
                        responsible for directing and supervising staff coordination and ensuring effective
                        and prompt staff actions. Responsible for establishing, managing, and enforcing the
                        staff planning time line which conforms to the mission and is in accordance with the
                        CDT Battalion Commander's guidance. Monitors the staff's discipline, morale, and supervises
                        the integration of risk management across the entire staff for planning and execution
                        of all operations and training events. Supervises all tasks assigned to the staff
                        and serves as the acting CDT Battalion Commander in his/her absence. Manages the CDT
                        Battalion.
                     
                     
                     Back to Top
                     
                     
                     
                      Cadet Battalion Command Sergeant Major
                     
                     
                     CDT Battalion Command Sergeant Major (CSM) for the University of Memphis' Army ROTC
                        Tiger Battalion and affiliated schools is responsible for providing the CDT Battalion
                        Commander with personal, professional, and technical advice on cadet "enlisted" matters
                        and the CDT noncommissioned officer corps. Executes established policies and standards
                        concerning cadet performance, training, appearance, and conduct. Establishes and maintains
                        communications with subordinate cadet NCOs and other cadet enlisted personnel through
                        CDT NCO channels.  Monitors and recommends actions as necessary on the morale and
                        discipline of the CDT Battalion. Adheres to guidance and direction provided by the
                        SMI.
                     
                     
                     Back to Top
                     
                     
                     
                      Cadet Battalion S1
                     
                     
                     CDT Battalion S1 for the University of Memphis' Army ROTC Tiger Battalion and affiliated
                        schools is responsible for monitoring and advising the CDT Battalion Commander on
                        all personnel issues and actions to include promotions, awards, pay services, medical
                        services, legal, medical, and contractual services. Conducts staff coordination with
                        the Human Resource Administrator and applicable cadre members. As directed, prepares
                        annexes and appendices to plans and orders in support of mission accomplishment and
                        training events. Advises the CDT Battalion Commander and staff on regulations and
                        policies which govern cadet personnel actions.
                     
                     
                     Back to Top
                     
                     
                     
                      Cadet Battalion S3
                     
                     
                     CDT Battalion S3 for the University of Memphis' Army ROTC Tiger Battalion and affiliated
                        schools serves as the principle staff officer for all matters concerning training,
                        plans, and operations. Responsible for preparing and supervising the execution of
                        the training within the battalion. Prepares training guidance for the commander's
                        approval. Identifies training requirements and ensures training is oriented on setting
                        conditions for improving individual training proficiency levels across all MS classes.
                        Works with the Battalion S3 in preparing, coordinating, authenticating, publishing,
                        and distributing the command SOP, OPORDs, WARNOs, and FRAGOs throughout the chain
                        of command. Reviews OPORDS for synchronization and completion and ensures risks management
                        is integrated into all training events.
                     
                     
                     Back to Top
                     
                     
                     
                      Cadet Battalion S4
                     
                     
                     CDT Battalion S4 for the University of Memphis' Army ROTC Tiger Battalion and affiliated
                        schools serves as the principle staff officer for all matters concerning equipment,
                        budget, and resourcing. Responsible for coordinating and resourcing equipment and
                        resources for training within the battalion. Prepares supply guidance for the commander's
                        approval. Identifies supply requirements and ensures classes of supply are available
                        for training. Works with the Battalion S4 in preparing, coordinating, resourcing,
                        publishing, and distributing supplies throughout the chain of command.  As directed,
                        prepares annexes and appendices to plans and orders in support of mission accomplishment
                        and training events.
                     
                     
                     Back to Top
                     
                     
                     
                      Platoon Tactical Officer
                     
                     
                     Platoon Tactical Officer (PTO) for the University of Memphis' Army ROTC Tiger Battalion
                        and affiliated schools serves as the senior platoon Teacher, Assessor, Coach (TAC)
                        for his assigned platoon. Responsible for ensuring Leadership Assessment Reports are
                        completed IAW published Leadership Development Program (LDP) standards and submitted
                        in a timely fashion. Responsible for ensuring Teacher, Assessor, and Coaches (TACs)
                        provide responsive feedback designed to modify behaviors for achieving maximum results
                        at LDAC. Works with the Battalion S3 and cadre to develop and execute training for
                        the CDT Company. Coaches and Mentors all cadets on lessons and experiences from LDAC.
                        Leads and actively participates in After Action Reviews and ensures training is safe.
                     
                     
                     Back to Top
                     
                     
                     
                      Cadet Platoon Leader
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Ultimately responsible for all the Platoon does or fails to do
                        
                        Receives OPORD from the commander (take notes and ask pertinent questions)
                        
                        Adjusts order and issues OPORD to Squad Leaders in compliance with 1/3/2/3
                        
                        Checks with S-3 and PTO on all training and events
                        
                        Always knows accountability
                        
                        Supervises all activities
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      Cadet Platoon Sergeant
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Maintains accountability of the platoon
                        
                        Disseminates all information to Squad Leaders
                        
                        Composes and may present Paragraph IV of the Platoon OPORD
                        
                        Coordinates all supplies with S4
                        
                        Inspects squad-level classes along with Platoon Leader
                        
                        Keeps the Platoon on the time line
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      Cadet Squad Leader
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Adjusts and issues OPORD to Team Leaders
                        
                        Disseminates all information to the SQD through Team Leaders
                        
                        Prepares block of instruction using crawl-walk-run method
                        
                        Uses visual aids for OPORD and classes
                        
                        Always has accountability of the Squad
                        
                     
                     
                     Back to Top
                     
                     
                     
                      Cadet Ranger Challenge Commander
                     
                     
                     CDT Commander for the University of Memphis' Army ROTC Tiger Battalion's Ranger Challenge
                        Team is responsible to the CDT Battalion Commander and Professor of Military Science
                        for the command, control, health, welfare, morale, discipline, and safety of all Ranger
                        Challenge personnel. Updates the Professor of Military Science, designated cadre,
                        and CDT Battalion Commander on the training proficiency levels. Establish and maintain
                        an effective training plan designed to aggressively train and develop Ranger Challenge
                        personnel into a highly competitive team which will positively represent the University
                        of Memphis, and the Tiger Battalion through varsity-level competition. 
                     
                     
                     Back to Top
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Cadet Professional Training
                              Learn about Leadership Development, Cadet Troop Leader Training, Airborne School,
                                 Combat Diver Course, and more...
                              
                           
                           
                              News & Events
                              Army ROTC offers several training, recruiting and social events and opportunities
                                 during each semester. 
                              
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Main contact information
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/9/15
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/armyrotc/cadet_resources/battalion_organization_and_responsibilities.php
