http://www.memphis.edu/armyrotc/cadet_resources/curriculum.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Army Reserve Officer Training Corps
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About Us
                        Getting Started
                        Campus Life
                        Cadet Resources
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Army Reserve Officer Training Corps
                              	
                        
                              	Cadet Resources
                              	
                         Curriculum
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                      Curriculum
                     
                     
                     Learn about the Army courses:
                     
                     
                        
                        PT Courses
                        
                        Freshman Courses
                        
                        Sophomore Courses
                        
                        Junior Courses
                        
                        Senior Courses
                        
                        Military History
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      PT Courses (Boot Camp)
                     
                     Fall
                     
                     PHED 1745 ROTC Boot Camp
                     
                     (2 credits) Grade Method: REG/P-F/AUD
                     
                     This course allows beginners to learn the basic Army Physical Fitness program. Through
                           a series of rigorous progressive workouts, the student advances from novice status
                           to meet the requirements of the Army Physical Fitness Test.  The class takes place
                           on campus at the Elma Roane Field House track, just outside the battalion headquarters,
                           on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 6:00-7:00 a.m.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Spring
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     PHED 1745 ROTC Boot Camp
                     
                     (2 credits) Grade Method: REG/P-F/AUD
                     
                     This course expands knowledge and proficiency in Basic Army Physical Fitness. Through
                           continued, progressive, and rigorous workouts, students improve individual fitness
                           levels to exceed the Army Physical Fitness Test requirements.  The class takes place
                           on campus at the Elma Roane Field House track, just outside the battalion headquarters,
                           on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 6:00-7:00 a.m. Back to Top
                     
                     
                        
                     
                     
                     Freshman Courses
                     
                     Fall
                     
                     ARMY1110 Leadership/Personal Development I (1 credit), Grade Method: REG  
                     
                     Prerequisite: Permission of Army ROTC. An exploration of leadership application through classroom instruction, leadership
                        training and mentorship, adventure exercises and camaraderie. Hands on experience
                        in managerial operations and military techniques. Applied military customs and techniques
                        through physical and mental training.
                     
                     
                     ARMY1100 Leadership Laboratory Prerequisite: Permission of Army ROTC.   Leadership laboratory provides the forum for the reinforcement of formal classroom
                        instruction. Lab revolves around the practical application of the theories of leadership
                        with a “hands-on” approach to learning. Provides opportunities for cadets to exercise
                        leadership, planning, and management.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Spring
                     
                     ARMY 1120 Leadership/Personal Development II (2 credits) Grade Method: REG/P-F/AUD.  
                     
                     Prerequisite: Permission of Army ROTC. The continuation of the exploration of leadership application through classroom instruction,
                        leadership training and mentorship, adventure exercises and camaraderie.
                     
                     
                     ARMY 1115 Leadership Laboratory Prerequisite: Permission of Army ROTC.                                                                                                                                              Leadership laboratory provides the forum for the reinforcement of formal classroom
                        instruction. Lab revolves around the practical application of the theories of leadership
                        with a “hands-on” approach to learning. Provides opportunities for cadets to exercise
                        leadership, planning, and management Back to Top
                     
                     
                        
                     
                     
                      Sophomore Courses
                     
                     Fall
                     
                     ARMY2140 Innovative Team Leadership I
                     
                     (2 credits) Grade Method: REG/P-F/AUD.  
                     
                     Prerequisite: Permission of Army ROTC and Sophomore standing
                     
                     This course is an intensive examination of the Army Leadership Model in practice.
                        The model is compared to leadership styles and techniques from government and industry
                        and the comparative effectiveness of each. Students form their own personal leadership
                        styles.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     ARMY2100 Leadership Laboratory
                     
                     Prerequisite: Permission of Army ROTC.
                     
                     Leadership laboratory provides the forum for the reinforcement of formal classroom
                        instruction. Lab revolves around the practical application of the theories of leadership
                        with a “hands-on” approach to learning. Provides opportunities for cadets to exercise
                        leadership, planning, and management.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Spring
                     
                     ARMY2145 Innovative Team Leadership II (2 credits) Grade Method: REG/P-F/AUD.  
                     
                     Prerequisite: Permission of Army ROTC and Sophomore standing
                     
                     This course uses the case study method to examine the Army Leadership Model as applied
                        to assigned missions in U.S. history. Students learn to evaluate and assimilate effective
                        leadership methods and techniques. Includes a laboratory period in which case studies
                        are worked out and presented by individuals and groups.
                     
                     
                     ARMY2115 Leadership Laboratory 
                     
                     Prerequisite: Permission of Army ROTC.  Leadership laboratory provides the forum for the reinforcement of formal classroom
                        instruction. Lab revolves around the practical application of the theories of leadership
                        with a “hands-on” approach to learning. Provides opportunities for cadets to exercise
                        leadership, planning, and management Back to Top
                     
                     
                        
                     
                     
                      Junior Courses
                     
                     Fall
                     
                     ARMY3111 Adaptive Tactical Leadership I ( 3 credits) Grade Method: REG Prerequisite: Permission of Army ROTC and Junior standing Reinforces understanding and application of Army leadership strategies, critical decision
                        making methodologies, physical and mental fitness excellence. Includes a laboratory
                        period in applied leadership, common military tasks and physical fitness.
                     
                     
                     ARMY3100 Leadership Laboratory 
                     
                     Prerequisite: Permission of Army ROTC.                                                                                                                                                 Leadership laboratory provides the forum for the reinforcement of formal classroom
                        instruction. Lab revolves around the practical application of the theories of leadership
                        with a “hands-on” approach to learning. Provides opportunities for cadets to exercise
                        leadership, planning, and management.
                     
                     
                     Spring
                     
                     ARMY3121 Adaptive Tactical Leadership II                  (3 credits) Grade Method: REG/P-F/AUD Prerequisites: Permission of Army ROTC and Junior standing Prepares contracted students for certification at the Army National Advance Camp,
                        a prerequisite for commissioning as an officer in the U.S. Army. Focus is directed
                        to military tactics, squad and platoon drills, marksmanship, land navigation and fitness
                        excellence. Includes a laboratory period in applied leadership skills as well as a
                        three day field exercise.
                     
                     
                     ARMY3115 Leadership Laboratory
                     
                     Prerequisite: Permission of Army ROTC. Leadership laboratory provides the forum for the reinforcement of formal classroom
                        instruction. Lab revolves around the practical application of the theories of leadership
                        with a “hands-on” approach to learning. Provides opportunities for cadets to exercise
                        leadership, planning, and management Back to Top
                     
                     
                        
                     
                     
                     Senior Courses
                     
                     Fall
                     
                     ARMY4111 Developing Adaptive Leaders
                     
                     (3 credits) Grade Method: REG
                     
                     Prerequisite: Permission of Army ROTC and senior standing
                     
                     Introduces contracted students to the study of Army structure, practices and processes
                        exercised by Army Commanders and Staff in completing personnel, logistics, training
                        and combat operations. Includes a laboratory in applied leadership skills and two
                        field exercises.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     ARMY4100 Leadership Laboratory
                     
                     Prerequisite: Permission of Army ROTC and Senior standing.
                     
                     Leadership laboratory provides the forum for the reinforcement of formal classroom
                        instruction. Lab revolves around the practical application of the theories of leadership
                        with a “hands-on” approach to learning. Provides opportunities for cadets to exercise
                        leadership, planning, and management.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Spring
                     
                     
                     
                     ARMY4121 Seminar Organizational Leadership
                     
                     (3 credits) Grade Method: REG/P-F/AUD
                     
                     Prerequisite: Permission of Army ROTC. Senior standing.
                     
                     The military system and code of ethics in the military environment is studied. Topics
                        include code of conduct during all forms of military operations, the Geneva Conventions
                        and the ethical decision making process. Also includes a laboratory in applied leadership
                        skills, fitness excellence and two field exercises.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     ARMY4115 Leadership Laboratory
                     
                     Prerequisite: Permission of Army ROTC.
                     
                     Leadership laboratory provides the forum for the reinforcement of formal classroom
                        instruction. Lab revolves around the practical application of the theories of leadership
                        with a “hands-on” approach to learning. Provides opportunities for cadets to exercise
                        leadership, planning, and management
                     
                     
                     Back to Top
                     
                     
                        
                     
                     
                      Military History
                     
                     ARMY2105 American Military History
                     
                     (3 credits) Grade Method: REG
                     
                     Prerequisite: Permission of Army ROTC.
                     
                     All cadets must successfully complete a college level survey course in American military
                        history, preferably one that includes a battle analysis and lessons learned from a
                        battle. The course objectives are to improve cadet understanding have the evolution
                        of war, the evolution of professionalism in the American military, and the place of
                        the American military in society. Approval by the Professor of Military Science is
                        required before a course can be used to satisfy the Military History requirement
                     
                     
                     Back to Top
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Cadet Professional Training
                              Learn about Leadership Development, Cadet Troop Leader Training, Airborne School,
                                 Combat Diver Course, and more...
                              
                           
                           
                              News & Events
                              Army ROTC offers several training, recruiting and social events and opportunities
                                 during each semester. 
                              
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Main contact information
                           
                           
                              Make a Donation to Army ROTC
                              Making a gift is simple.  Follow the link and make sure you designate your gift to
                                 go to Army ROTC.
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 6/24/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/armyrotc/cadet_resources/curriculum.php
