http://www.memphis.edu/armyrotc/cadet_resources/uniforms.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   		
   	
   		
   
   
   		
   		
   
   
   	
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Army Reserve Officer Training Corps
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About Us
                        Getting Started
                        Campus Life
                        Cadet Resources
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Army Reserve Officer Training Corps
                              	
                        
                              	Cadet Resources
                              	
                         Uniforms
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                      Uniforms
                     
                     
                     Choose a uniform:
                     
                     ACUs
                     
                     Army Service Uniform, Male
                     
                     Army Service Uniform, Female
                     
                     Army Physical Fitness Uniform (APFU)
                     
                      
                     
                      ACU s
                     
                     
                        
                        Composition:
                        
                        Patrol Cap
                        
                        Coat
                        
                        Tan undershirt
                        
                        Trousers, with belt
                        
                        Green or Black socks
                        
                        Tan Boots
                        
                     
                     
                     General Fitting Guidelines:
                     
                     This uniform is designed to be loose fitting. A tight fit reduces airflow needed for
                        ventilation and cooling. The coat will be worn outside the trousers and the trousers
                        will be worn with the issued belt. The coat will not extend below the top of the cargo
                        pocket on the pants and will not be any higher than the bottom of the side pocket
                        on the pants. The trousers will be worn bloused using the draw cords or blousing rubbers
                        if the trousers are not tucked into the boots. Trouser legs will not be wrapped around
                        the leg so tight as to present a pegged appearance.
                     
                     
                     Patrol Cap:
                     
                     Nametape: Worn on the back
                     
                     Rank: Subdued rank, worn on the front, centered.
                     
                     ACU Coat:
                     
                     US Army Tape: Worn above left breast pocket (as worn)
                     
                     Nametape: Worn above right breast pocket (as worn)
                     
                     Rank: Worn in center of chest
                     
                     Shoulder Patch: ROTC patch is worn on left shoulder, authorized combat patch is worn
                        on right shoulder (as worn)
                     
                     
                     US Flag: Worn on right shoulder flap (as worn)
                     
                     Tabs: Worn on left shoulder flap (as worn)
                     
                      
                     
                     Back to Top
                     
                      
                     
                      Army Service Uniform, Male
                     
                     Composition:
                     
                     
                        
                        Blue coat
                        
                        Light blue trousers, with belt
                        
                        White shirt (long or short sleeve)
                        
                        Beret
                        
                        Four-in-hand tie
                        
                        Black dress socks
                        
                        Black oxford shoes
                        
                     
                     
                     Beret Fitting Guidelines:
                     
                     The beret is worn so that the headband (edge binding) is straight across the forehead,
                        1 inch above the eyebrows. The flash is positioned over the left eye, and the excess
                        material is draped over to the right ear, extending to at least the top of the ear,
                        and no lower than the middle of the ear. Personnel will cut off the ends of the adjusting
                        ribbon and secure the ribbon knot inside the edge binding at the back of the beret.
                        When worn properly, the beret is formed to the shape of the head; therefore, Cadets
                        may not wear hairstyles that cause distortion of the beret.
                     
                     
                     Cadet Enlisted: DUI, 1" from the crease
                     
                     Cadet Officer: Non-subdued rank, 1" from the crease
                     
                     Coat Fitting Guidelines:
                     
                     The coat will be fitted slightly at the waist conforming to the figure without tightness
                        and no prominent flare. The sleeve will be 1" below the bottom of the wrist bone.
                     
                     
                     Nameplate: Centered on right pocket flap
                     
                     Ribbons: 1/8" above the coat's left pocket
                     
                     Rank: Non-subdued rank will be worn on the shoulder loop of the coat, 5/8" from the
                        shoulder seam
                     
                     
                     Distinct Unit Insignia DUI: Worn on the shoulder loop equidistant from the button
                        and rank
                     
                     
                     Lapel:
                     
                     
                        
                        Basic Course: Torch of knowledge, centered on lapel and 1" above lapel notch
                        
                        Advanced Course: ROTC insignia, centered on lapel and 5/8" above lapel notch 
                        
                     
                     
                     Shoulder:
                     
                     
                        
                        ROTC Shoulder Insignia: Left shoulder, 1/2" below the seam
                        
                        University of Memphis Shoulder Insignia: Right shoulder, 1/2" below the seam
                        
                     
                     
                     Tabs: Left shoulder above ROTC shoulder insignia
                     
                     Trousers Fitting Guidelines:
                     
                     Trousers are to be fitted and worn with the lower edge of the waistband at the top
                        of the hipbone, plus or minus 1/2". The front crease of the trousers will reach the
                        top of the instep and be cut on a diagonal line to reach a point approximately midway
                        between the top of the heel and the top of the standard shoe in the back. The trousers
                        may have a slight break in the front.
                     
                     
                     Shirt Fitting Guidelines:
                     
                     Long-sleeve length will extend to the center of the wrist bone
                     
                     Belt Fitting Guidelines:
                     
                      The brass tipped end will pass through the buckle to the wearer's left and will not
                        extend beyond the end of the buckle so the fabric portion of the belt will not be
                        seen. The plain end (no tip) of the belt may extend beyond the keeper portion of the
                        inside of the buckle as long as it is not visible when worn
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Army Dress Uniform
                     
                     This uniform is considered a dress uniform when worn with a black bow tie and a white
                        commercial shirt
                     
                     
                     Back to Top
                     
                      
                     
                      Army Service Uniform, Female
                     
                     Composition:
                     
                     
                        
                        Blue coat
                        
                        Blue skirt or slacks, with belt
                        
                        White shirt (long or short sleeve)
                        
                        Beret
                        
                        Black neck tab
                        
                        Black dress socks(slacks only)
                        
                        Stockings
                        
                        Black oxford shoes(slacks only)
                        
                        Black pumps
                        
                     
                     
                     Beret Fitting Guidelines:
                     
                     The beret is worn so that the headband (edge binding) is straight across the forehead,
                        1 inch above the eyebrows. The flash is positioned over the left eye, and the excess
                        material is draped over to the right ear, extending to at least the top of the ear,
                        and no lower than the middle of the ear. Personnel will cut off the ends of the adjusting
                        ribbon and secure the ribbon knot inside the edge binding at the back of the beret.
                        When worn properly, the beret is formed to the shape of the head; therefore, Cadets
                        may not wear hairstyles that cause distortion of the beret.
                     
                     
                     Cadet Enlisted: DUI, 1" from the crease
                     
                     Cadet Officer: Non-subdued rank, 1" from the crease
                     
                     Coat Fitting Guidelines:
                     
                      The sleeve will be 1" below the bottom of the wrist bone
                     
                     Nameplate: 1" to 2" above the top button, centered on the right side
                     
                     Ribbons: Centered on the left side, bottom row positioned parallel to the bottom edge
                        of the nameplate
                     
                     
                     Rank: Non-subdued rank will be worn on the shoulder loop of the coat, 5/8" from the
                        shoulder seam
                     
                     
                     Distinct Unit Insignia (DUI): Worn on the shoulder loop equidistant from the button
                        and rank
                     
                     
                     Lapel:
                     
                     
                        
                        Basic Course: Torch of knowledge, centered on lapel and 1" above lapel notch
                        
                        Advanced Course: ROTC insignia, centered on lapel and 5/8" above lapel notch
                        
                     
                     
                     Shoulder:
                     
                     
                        
                        ROTC Shoulder Insignia: Left shoulder, 1/2" below the seam
                        
                        University of Memphis Shoulder Insignia: Right shoulder, 1/2" below the seam
                        
                     
                     
                     Tabs: Left shoulder above ROTC shoulder insignia
                     
                     Slacks Fitting Guidelines:
                     
                      Slacks will be fitted and worn so that the center of the waistband is at the natural
                        waistline. The front crease of the slacks will reach the top of the instep and be
                        cut on a diagonal line to reach a point approximately midway between the top of the
                        heel and the top of the standard shoe in the back. The slacks may have a slight break
                        in the front
                     
                     
                     Skirt Fitting Guidelines:
                     
                     Skirt and dress lengths will not be more than 1" above or 2" below the crease in the
                        back of the knee
                     
                     
                     Shirt Fitting Guidelines:
                     
                     The long-sleeve length will extend to the center of the wrist bone
                     
                     Belt Fitting Guidelines:
                     
                      Females will wear the black belt with black or brass tip when wearing slacks with
                        belt loops. The brass tipped end will pass through the buckle to the wearer's right
                        and will not extend beyond the end of the buckle so the fabric portion of the belt
                        will not be seen. The plain end (no tip) of the belt may extend beyond the keeper
                        portion of the inside of the buckle as long as it is not visible when worn
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Army Dress Uniform
                     
                     This uniform is considered a dress uniform when worn with the black neck tab, white
                        shirt, skirt, and black service pumps
                     
                     
                     Back to Top
                     
                      
                     
                      Army Physical Fitness Uniform (APFU)
                     
                     Composition (Summer):
                     
                     
                        
                        Short-Sleeve PT Shirt
                        
                        PT Shorts
                        
                        White Socks (socks must be no lower than the ankle and no higher than lower calf in
                           length)
                        
                        
                        Athletic Shoes
                        
                        Reflective Belt (the reflective belt is worn around the waist with summer uniform)
                        
                     
                     
                     Composition (Winter):
                     
                     
                        
                        Jacket
                        
                        PT Pants
                        
                        PT Shorts
                        
                        Long-Sleeve PT Shirt
                        
                        Gloves
                        
                        Fleece Cap (black or green)
                        
                        White Socks
                        
                        Athletic Shoes
                        
                        Reflective Belt (the reflective belt is worn across the chest over the right shoulder
                           with the PT Jacket on; worn around the waist with the PT Jacket off
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Back to Top
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Cadet Professional Training
                              Learn about Leadership Development, Cadet Troop Leader Training, Airborne School,
                                 Combat Diver Course, and more...
                              
                           
                           
                              News & Events
                              Army ROTC offers several training, recruiting and social events and opportunities
                                 during each semester. 
                              
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Main contact information
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/9/15
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/armyrotc/cadet_resources/uniforms.php
