http://www.memphis.edu/art/programs/ma_arthistory.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Art
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Programs
                        People
                        Facilities
                        Resources
                        News/Events
                     
                     
                        
                           Programs
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Undergraduate
                                       Art Education
                                       Art History
                                       Foundation Studies
                                       Graphic Design
                                       Photography
                                       Studio Arts
                                    
                                 
                                 Graduate
                                       
                                       Art Education
                                       
                                       Art History
                                       
                                       Ceramics
                                       
                                       Graphic Design
                                       
                                       Painting
                                       
                                       Photography
                                       
                                       Printmaking
                                       
                                       Sculpture
                                    
                                 
                                 Undergraduate Catalog
                                       Art
                                       Art History
                                    
                                 
                                 Graduate Catalog
                                 Certificate Program
                                       Museum Studies
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Department of Art
                              	
                        
                              	Programs
                              	
                        MA in Art History
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Art History at the University of Memphis is the study of art as both a reflection
                        of culture and an active agent in shaping it. As such, painting, sculpture, architecture,
                        photography, video, performance, mixed media, among other mediums, are understood
                        to be intricately related to a broader cultural context including literature, philosophy,
                        religion, politics, and science. Students are trained to closely analyze art and visual
                        culture from an interdisciplinary perspective, taking into consideration the creative
                        process, viewer reception, and artistic function.
                     
                     
                     The goal of the Master's program is to equip students with a specialist knowledge
                        in a specific field of art and visual culture and produce graduates with the analytical
                        training, writing skills, and research techniques necessary to pursue further doctoral
                        studies or a range of employment opportunities in education, museums and galleries,
                        conservation, arts organizations, or publishing. With one of the largest art history
                        faculties in the Southeast (nine Ph.D. faculty) offering a number of graduate courses,
                        such as Art and Iconoclasm, Methods and Research, Greek Art, Visual Arts of Africa,
                        Museum Studies, Egyptian Art and Architecture, Modern American Photography, Realism
                        and Impressionism, and Contemporary Folk Art, the art history program at the University
                        of Memphis ranks among the best in the region.
                     
                     
                     The program has been further distinguished among state institutions by awards of both
                        a Chair of Excellence (The Dorothy Kayser Hohenberg Chair of Excellence in Art History,
                        which provides us with a distinguished visiting scholar every year), and a Center
                        of Excellence, the Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology, which supports the study
                        of the art of Egypt with a substantial research library and object collection, as
                        well as a distinguished faculty of five, making it one of the largest teaching programs
                        in the U.S.
                     
                     
                     The program provides the opportunity for concentration in either General Art History
                        or Egyptian Art and Archaeology. In addition, students can participate in the Interdisciplinary
                        Graduate Certificate Program in Museum Studies (administered jointly by the Departments
                        of Anthropology and Art). This Program prepares students who are currently enrolled
                        in or have graduated from Master's or Doctoral degree programs to enter museum professions,
                        such as administration, education, collection management, registration, exhibition
                        development, and curation. Two years are normally required to complete the 30 hour
                        MA program, of which 21 hours are spent in seminars and directed research. Active
                        students in the program usually number twenty or more and each student is mentored
                        by a graduate faculty member.
                     
                     
                     PROGRAM STRUCTURE AND APPLICATION
                     
                     At least 21 hours of graduate level courses (6000-8000 level) must be taken during
                        the first three semesters, with Greek Art and Art History Methods and Practices being
                        the only required classes. Before the end of the first year, students are required
                        to pass a foreign language translation exam (preferably, French, German, and Italian)
                        and an image identification exam. For the concentration in Egyptian art and archaeology,
                        an examination in Middle Egyptian is also required. The fourth semester is dedicated
                        to writing the thesis, which is researched and written over a period of approximately
                        three months with full supervision from the student's faculty advisor. The thesis
                        forms a complete induction into primary research methods and all aspects of the presentation
                        of research. The topic generally arises from the previous three terms of study.
                     
                     
                     ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS
                     
                     Admission to the program is based on faculty review of the following elements: GRE
                        score; or Miller Analogy Test and, for the concentration in General Art History, a
                        substantial undergraduate training in the history of art. For the concentration in
                        Egyptian Art and Archaeology, undergraduate training should be in Egyptology or a
                        related field (art history, anthropology, history, classical studies or archaeology).
                     
                     
                     ASSISTANTSHIP OPPORTUNITIES
                     
                     Assistantships are available to students in the MA program. Graduate Assistants receive
                        a waiver for tuition and fees, as well as a stipend in return for service to the Art
                        Department or the Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology. There are also various
                        merit-based university fellowships awarded to graduate students by the Institute of
                        Egyptian Art and Archaeology and the College of Communications and Fine Arts. Because
                        the Egyptology concentration is unique in the Mid-South, students who are residents
                        of states belonging to the Southern Regional Education Board's Academic Common Market
                        are eligible to pay in-state tuition. See the SREB website for more information.
                     
                     
                     WHEN TO APPLY
                     
                     For Fall semester admission with assistantship: February 15. Early applications are
                        encouraged. Applications received after April 1 cannot be assured processing for the
                        Fall semester. Potential applicants are advised to complete required testing before
                        January 1. For those seeking to enter the MA program in the Spring semester, completed
                        materials must be received at the University by November 1.
                     
                     
                     HOW TO APPLY
                     
                     Two processes are involved for admission to the program: admission to the Graduate
                        School (judged by the guidelines of the Graduate School), and admission to the MA
                        Program in Art History (judged by the Art History faculty). Thus, two sets of materials
                        must be forwarded.
                     
                     
                     Send the following directly to the University of Memphis Graduate Admissions Office,
                        Graduate School, University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Graduate Admission form and application fee
                        
                        Test scores (GRE or MAT)
                        
                        Official undergraduate transcripts
                        
                     
                     
                     [make a copy of these documents to include below]
                     
                     Send the following directly to the appropriate program advisor:
                     
                     Dr. Lorelei Corcoran, Graduate Advisor for Egyptian Art and Archaeology, The University
                        of Memphis, Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology, Art & Communication 315B, Memphis,
                        TN 38152
                     
                     
                     or
                     
                     Dr. Fred Albertson, Graduate Advisor for Art of Europe and the Americas/Arts of Africa
                        and the African Diaspora,
                     
                     
                     The University of Memphis, Department of Art, Art & Communication 244F, Memphis, TN
                        38152
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Letter of intent (indicating why you are applying to this program)
                        
                        A sample of your written work (a research paper, preferably in this field)
                        
                        Two letters of reference, at least one from a person who knows your academic potential
                           in this field<
                        
                        
                        Copies of the materials you sent to the Graduate School [above]
                        
                     
                     
                     If you are applying for an Assistantship, those forms should be sent directly to the
                        appropriate Graduate Advisor for Art History as well.
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Programs
                        
                           
                              
                              Undergraduate
                                    Art Education
                                    Art History
                                    Foundation Studies
                                    Graphic Design
                                    Photography
                                    Studio Arts
                                 
                              
                              Graduate
                                    
                                    Art Education
                                    
                                    Art History
                                    
                                    Ceramics
                                    
                                    Graphic Design
                                    
                                    Painting
                                    
                                    Photography
                                    
                                    Printmaking
                                    
                                    Sculpture
                                 
                              
                              Undergraduate Catalog
                                    Art
                                    Art History
                                 
                              
                              Graduate Catalog
                              Certificate Program
                                    Museum Studies
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply now!
                              Be part of our artistic community.
                           
                           
                              Visit! 
                              The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art
                           
                           
                              Donate now!
                              Support future professional artists.
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Office hours and location
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/9/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/art/programs/ma_arthistory.php
