http://www.memphis.edu/art/news_events/springsixteen.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Art
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Programs
                        People
                        Facilities
                        Resources
                        News/Events
                     
                     
                        
                           News/Events
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Fall 2016
                                 Spring 2016
                                 Fall 2015
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Department of Art
                              	
                        
                              	News/Events
                              	
                        Spring 2016
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Fall 2016
                     
                     Art of the South 2016 Juried Exhibition presented by Number: Inc
                     
                     May 16 – June 17, 2016 Opening reception: June 20
                     
                     
                     A juried exhibition, open to all artists 18 and older working in any media residing
                        in AL, AR, FL, GA, KY, LA, MA, MO, MS, NC, OK, TN, TX, SC, VA, or WV. Accepted work
                        will be exhibited in one of two locations: The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries
                        of Contemporary Art at the University of Memphis and Gallery 121 at Belmont University
                        in Nashville. The two galleries will be connected through Skype the night of the opening
                        (May 20) and will be open to the public from May 16 – June 17, 2016. Juror: Chad Alligood,
                        Assistant Curator of Special Projects at Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art, Bentonville,
                        AR.
                     
                     
                     For more information, please visit  numberinc.org/art-of-the-south/
                     
                     
                     
                     Virginia Overton The Aldrich Contemporary art museum
                     
                     
                     May 1, 2016, to February 5, 2017 Opening Reception: Sunday, May 1, 2 to 5 pm
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Graphic Design Senior SHOW
                     
                     
                     
                     May 5, 2016
                     
                     Reception: Thursday, May 5, 6-8 PM
                     
                     Join us for a one-night only exhibition of works by graduating University of Memphis
                        undergraduate Graphic Design students. Presenters include Ethan Fowler, Hunter Hamilton,
                        Taylor Holland Nicole Lee, DaVario Looney, Shakeya Merriweather, Amanda Mize, Britany Neely, and
                        Amy Nguyen.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Cedar Lorca Nordbye presentation from Ignite Memphis at Playhouse on the Square
                     
                     
                           
                     
                     
                     
                     First Place in the Division of the Liberal Arts and Fine Arts in the 28th annual University
                        of Memphis Student Research Forum
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     JESSICA JOHNSON AND CAROLINA QUINTANA
                     
                     Jessica Johnson and Carolina Quintana, 2016 MA graduates in art history with a concentration
                        in Egyptian art and archaeology, received First Place in the Division of the Liberal
                        Arts and Fine Arts in the 28th annual University of Memphis Student Research Forum,
                        March 28, 2016. Their poster presentation featured their research on the topic of
                        the ancient Egyptian ideas concerning the afterlife as reflected in their funerary
                        texts and their use of amulets to ensure a successful transition from this life to
                        the next. The amulet featured is in the collection of the Institute of Egyptian Art
                        & Archaeology and is one of only four like it in the world.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Box Gallery Show:
                     
                     EXcessive Tendencies
                     
                     
                     
                     Featuring new work by Paige Ellens and Emilio Norman. . . .
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        When: April 14 –May 2
                        
                        Where: Box Gallery
                        
                        Reception: Friday, April 15th, 2016 (5:00 - 7:00 PM)
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     The Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology of the University of Memphis invites
                        kids of all ages to Ancient Egypt Family Day.
                     
                     
                     This FREE public event runs form 10:00 am to 2:00 pm on Saturday, April 9, 2016 in
                        the lobby in front of the Art Museum.
                     
                     
                     Activities include "Write Your Name in Hieroglyphs," make an amulet or crown, color
                        a mask, and an Egyptian Gallery "scavenger" hunt!
                     
                     
                     For older children (ages 10 and up) and adults, the "School for Scribes" presents
                        a one hour introduction to the ancient Egyptian language and hieroglyphs. Space for
                        this activity is limited and reservations are required. Please call 901-678-2649 to
                        reserve your spot.
                     
                     
                     For more information, visit the IEAA web site or call us at 901-678-2649.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Box Gallery Show:
                     
                     The 4th Annual Best of Memphis
                     
                     
                     
                     The 4th Annual Best of Memphis is a juried competition. This year's juror is Lauren
                        Kennedy of Southfork and the UrbanArts Commission. . . .
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        When: March 17- April 5
                        
                        Where: Box Gallery
                        
                        Opening Reception: Friday, March 18, 2016 (5:00 - 7:00 PM)
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Beth Edwards
                     
                     
                     
                     Beth Edwards, a Memphis visual artist, is the recipient of the sixth annual Emmett
                        O'Ryan Award for Artistic Inspiration. This award is given by Metropolitan Bank to
                        a local artist whose work demonstrates artistic mastery.The Emmett O'Ryan Award is
                        given annually by Metropolitan Bank in honor of the late Emmett O'Ryan, an avid art
                        collector who was a founding board member of Metropolitan Bank. The winning artist
                        is selected by a committee composed of Metropolitan Bank associates, a member of the
                        ArtsMemphis board of directors, and representatives of Mr. O'Ryan's family. 15 outstanding
                        artists were nominated for 2016 Emmett Award.
                     
                     
                     
                     U of M's Egyptian Institute Will Host March 15th Lecture
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     "The 'First Tale of Setne Khaemwas' and the African-American Reception of Ancient
                        Egypt, 1939–1988"
                     
                     
                     The Institute of Egyptian Art & Archaeology at the University of Memphis will host
                        the thirteenth annual Legacy of Egypt Lecture on Tuesday, March 15th, at the Michael
                        D. Rose Theater, room 115. Dr. Steve Vinson of Indiana University, Bloomington, will
                        present at 7:00 p.m. A reception will precede the lecture, at 6:15 p.m. Both events
                        are free and open to the public. Pay parking is available in the Zach Curlin garage
                        adjacent to the University Center. Dr. Vinson is an associate professor of Egyptology at Indiana University, Bloomington.
                        Originally trained in anthropology and nautical archaeology, Dr. Vinson has often
                        written about Egyptian boats, ships, nautical transportation and trade. More recently,
                        he has turned his attention to Egyptian literature, particularly the literature of
                        the Greek and Roman periods. He is currently completing a book on historical and narrative
                        approaches to the 'First Tale of Setne Khaemwas.' Dr. Vinson will be speaking on the reception, by African-American authors in the Twentieth
                        Century, of an ancient Egyptian "ghost story," known as the 'First Tale of Setne Khaemwas'.
                        The sensational, and even lurid, subject matter of the ancient Setne story became
                        enmeshed with modern popular culture through its influence on the Victorian-era fiction
                        of H. Rider Haggard and the 1932 Universal film "The Mummy." Less well known, however,
                        is the influence of the Setne legend on African-American literature, including works
                        by Harlem Renaissance author Zora Neale Hurston and MacArthur Foundation fellow, Ishmael
                        Reed. Through these authors' works, the tale of Setne became intertwined with the
                        legend of Moses. This new and evolving narrative was informed by a broad understanding
                        of ancient Egypt's past that was current in the early and mid-Twentieth Century. At
                        the same time, it addressed concerns that were of special relevance to the African-American
                        community, including the long-standing image of Moses as a liberator; pan-Africanism;
                        a more specific "Egyptocentrism"; and, particularly in the case of Ishmael Reed, writing
                        in the 1970s, of black liberation.
                     
                     
                     For more information, email Dr. Joshua Roberson at jrbrson4@memphis.edu or call the
                        IEAA at 901-678-2555.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Above: Lawrence Matthews III, Cool Aint Cold (Newport), 2016. Digital archival inkjet print. Courtesy of the artist.
                     
                     
                     Lawrence Matthews III: The Marketing of Perception
                     
                     February 15 – March 4, 2016
                     
                     Opening Reception: Friday, February 19, 2016  5-8 PM
                     
                     The exhibition Lawrence Matthews III: The Marketing of Perception features Matthews' recent work exploring issues of race, image, and appropriation.
                        Derived from cigarette and alcohol advertisements in issues of Ebony magazine from
                        the 1960s and '70s, the artist's vibrant photographs of African-American men and women,
                        featured out of their original context, provoke questions of image making on both
                        literal and figurative levels. Stemming from Matthews' recent foray into photography,
                        the exhibition also includes the artist's trademark video installations comprised
                        of analog televisions playing commercials from the period.
                     
                     
                     On his subject matter, Matthews recalls, "In college, I began to collect copies of
                        Ebony from the 1960s and 70s. I was amazed by the progressiveness of the articles,
                        as well as the beautiful photography in the ads. They portrayed Black people as intelligent
                        and successful members of society. However, I began to notice nearly all of these
                        ads where for liquor and cigarettes. Brands I'd known as stereotypically "Black" such
                        as Newport, Seagrams, Hennessy, and Salem were repeated throughout the pages. I started
                        to wonder why products known to be harmful were featured so prominently in a magazine
                        existing to uplift Black Americans."
                     
                     
                     Matthews' close zoom brings to the forefront products once subtly placed in everyday
                        scenes while his deliberate cropping removes the ad copy that once surrounded these
                        images. His photographs take on new meaning as standalone images of cool, sexy, powerful,
                        and respectable individuals, yet under their veneer, also allude to a contentious,
                        racialized history of corporate power and blighted communities.
                     
                     
                     Lawrence Matthews III was born in Memphis, Tennessee, in 1991. His work ranges from
                        painting, collage, photography, and ready-made sculpture, to music and film. In 2014,
                        Matthews received his Bachelor of Fine Arts degree from the University of Memphis.
                        His work has been included in multiple solo and group exhibitions around the mid-south
                        including Caritas Village, Circuitous Succession Gallery, David Lusk Gallery, and
                        Crosstown Arts, among others. He has received numerous grants and awards including
                        Best of Show at The University of Memphis' 31st Annual Juried Student Exhibition in 2014, the Dean's Creative Achievement Award and Department of Art Creative Achievement
                        Award in 2015.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     
                     10th Annual Art Education Alumni Juried Exhibition
                     
                     February 15 – March 4, 2016
                     
                     Opening Reception: Friday, February 19, 2016  3:30-5 PM (awards presented at 4 PM)
                     
                     In its tenth year, the Annual Art Education Alumni Juried Exhibition features the work of area K-12 art educators who are graduates of The University
                        of Memphis Art Education Program, or who have completed coursework at the University
                        during their teaching preparation or careers. This year's exhibition theme is Finding
                        New Words Through Vision and Creativity. Every year, this exhibition is held during
                        Youth Art Month and is in accordance with the mission and vision of The University
                        of Memphis, the Department of Art, and the Tennessee Art Education Association. Award
                        winners will be selected by this year's judge, Jody Stokes-Casey, Interim Associate
                        Director of Education, Family and School Programs at the Memphis Brooks Museum of
                        Art.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      Community Art Academy
                     
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        When: Wednesday afternoons
                        
                        Where: The Benjamin L. Hooks Central Library
                        
                     
                     
                     The 2016 Community Art Academy is being held during spring semester. University of
                        Memphis art education majors are teaching art projects to students ages 9-12. The
                        students are from public, private and home schools. The Community Art Academy is being
                        held on Wednesday afternoons at The Benjamin L. Hooks Central Library on Poplar Avenue.
                        The art projects include puppets, watercolor painting, book arts, collage and ceramics. A celebration and art exhibition of the students' art will held at the end of The
                        Community Art Academy on March 30, 2016 in the gallery at The Benjamin L. Hooks Central
                        Library. For more information about The Community Art Academy or Art Education please contact
                        Dr. Bryna Bobick, bbobick@memphis.edu .
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      Box Gallery Show:
                     
                     Psi Ops
                     
                     
                     
                     Photographic works by Jesse DeLira. . . .
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        When: February 18- March 8
                        
                        Where: Box Gallery
                        
                        Opening Reception: Friday,February 19, 2016 (5:00 - 7:00 PM)
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Photography - Aaron Delaney
                     
                     
                     
                     Student Aaron Delaney's images will be featured in two upcoming publications.
                     
                     Photographer's Forum  recently selected Delaney's work for inclusion in the Best of College and High School Photography 2016 print publication. This was a highly competitive process and only 100 students were
                        chosen out of 14,000 applications.
                     
                     
                     Aaron Delaney's photos were also chosen for print in the Memphis VA Caregiver Center's
                        upcoming book "Caregivers of Veterans with PTSD." The images which he made for Photography
                        II, will be published in a booklet used to help Caregivers both on an individual basis as
                        well as in support groups. This book is a new addition to the VA's health interventions
                        designed to provide education, skills, and support to Caregivers of Veterans.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     UofM hosted three of 2015's top 10 art exhibitions
                     
                     In The Commercial Appeal's list of the 10 Best Art Exhibitions of 2015, three were
                        at the University of Memphis. The shows recognized were Toni Collums Roberts' thesis
                        exhibition "Inveterate" at the Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary
                        Art; "Samuel H. Crone: Works on Paper" at the Art Museum of the University of Memphis;
                        and Hamlett Dobbins' "The Attendant" and Lester Julian Merriweather's "White(s) Only"
                        at the Fogelman Galleries. Art professor Beth Edwards' exhibit "Oh Happy Day," shown
                        at the David Lusk Gallery, also was included in the Top 10.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     33RD ANNUAL JURIED STUDENT EXHIBITION FEATURES DIVERSE TALENTS
                     
                      
                     
                     Image captions (above, L to R): Kelly Henderson,  Untitled,  2015. Photograph; Jarvis Boyland,  Black Boy  (detail), 2015. Oil on canvas; Ruben Garnica,  Untitled  (detail), 2015. Steel.
                     
                     A tradition for the past 33 years, the 2016 Annual Student Exhibition will feature works by 41 University of Memphis undergraduate and graduate students
                        who have taken courses in the Department of Art. From over 100 submissions, 44 works
                        have been selected by exhibition judge, Michael Aurbach, a Nashville-based artist-educator.
                        Showcasing the breadth and diversity of U of M's student talent, the exhibition is
                        comprised of various media, including ceramics, drawing, graphic design, painting,
                        photography, and sculpture. The exhibition will be on view in The Martha and Robert
                        Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art from January 22 to February 5, 2016, as its
                        normal venue, the Art Museum of the University of Memphis, remains closed for renovations.
                     
                     
                     Student awards have been generously sponsored by The University of Memphis Office
                        of the President, Graduate School, Fogelman College of Business & Economics, and Department
                        of Art, as well as by local institutions and businesses including the Memphis Brooks
                        Museum of Art, Metal Museum, Dixon Gallery and Gardens, National Civil Rights Museum,
                        and Art Center.
                     
                     
                     Related Programming
                     
                     
                     Image caption (above): Michael Aurbach, Administrative Vision, 2013. Mixed media. Image courtesy of the artist.
                     
                     
                     "Three Decades of Making Stuff": Public Lecture by Michael Aurbach
                     
                     Thursday, January 21, 2016 7 PM Art and Communication Building, Room 310 (3715 Central Avenue; Memphis, TN) Free and open to the public
                     
                     
                     Nashville-based artist-educator Michael Aurbach and exhibition judge will reflect
                        on the past three decades of his career. Mr. Aurbach is best known for his socially
                        inspired sculptures that addresses issues of identity, death, institutional power,
                        and contemporary forms of scholarship. He has been the recipient of numerous grants
                        and awards. Among the institutions and foundations that have provided support for
                        his work are the National Endowment for the Arts, the Southern Arts Federation, the
                        Tennessee Arts Commission, Art Matters Inc., the Puffin Foundation, the Beren Foundation,
                        and Vanderbilt University. From 2002-04, he served as president of the College Art
                        Association, the world's largest organization of visual arts professionals. In December 2015, Aurbach retired as Professor of Fine Arts at Vanderbilt University,
                        having taught sculpture and drawing since1986.
                     
                     
                     For more information, please visit the artist's website: www.aurbachsculpture.com
                     
                     The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art
                     
                     Art and Communication Building, Rooms 230 and 240 3715 Central Avenue; Memphis, TN Tel: (901) 678-3052 Email: fogelmangalleries@memphis.edu Website: www.memphis.edu/fogelmangalleries Facebook: www.facebook.com/fogelmangalleries
                     
                     
                     
                     Box Gallery Show:
                     
                     Acolytes
                     
                     
                     
                     A show of student prints curated by Holt Brasher and Trevor Simpson. . . .
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        When: January 21- February 9
                        
                        Where: Box Gallery
                        
                        Opening Reception: Friday, January 22, 2016 ( 5:00 - 7:00 PM)
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        News/Events
                        
                           
                              
                              Fall 2016
                              Spring 2016
                              Fall 2015
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply now!
                              Be part of our artistic community.
                           
                           
                              Visit! 
                              The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art
                           
                           
                              Donate now!
                              Support future professional artists.
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Office hours and location
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 11/8/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/art/news_events/springsixteen.php
