http://www.memphis.edu/art/news_events/fallfifteen.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Art
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Programs
                        People
                        Facilities
                        Resources
                        News/Events
                     
                     
                        
                           News/Events
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Fall 2016
                                 Spring 2016
                                 Fall 2015
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Department of Art
                              	
                        
                              	News/Events
                              	
                        Fall 2015
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     FOGELMAN GALLERIES' EXHIBITIONS LISTED IN THE COMMERCIAL APPEAL'S ANNUAL TOP 10
                     
                     Photo Credit: Fredric Koeppel
                     
                     Art: The year's 10 Best Exhibitions
                     
                     There was a lot to love in local galleries and institutions in 2015, so let's not
                        delay and get right to my roster of the 10 Best Exhibitions... read more
                     
                     
                     
                     33rd Annual Juried Student Exhibition
                     
                     
                     
                     Starts 11/23/2015 Ends on 12/18/2015
                     
                     The 33rd Annual Juried Student Exhibition is a competitive art exhibition of works of all media open to eligible University
                        of Memphis students selected by judge  Michael Aurbach , a sculptor and Professor at Vanderbilt University. Selected works will be on view
                        in The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art from January 22 to February 5, 2016.
                     
                     
                     DEADLINE FOR ONLINE SUBMISSIONS IS FRIDAY, DECEMBER 18, 2015, AT 11:59 PM CT... read more
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Photo Credit: Fredric Koeppel
                     
                     Toni Collums Roberts' "Inveterate" alters the appearance and aura of the space at
                        the Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art at the University of
                        Memphis.
                     
                     
                     Sometimes works of art seem designed to test our patience, says the man who is still
                        in volume one of "The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire" after six years. (Two
                        more volumes await.)... read more
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     
                     Graphic Design Senior Show
                     
                     HEAD 'EM UP and MOVE 'EM OUT!
                     
                     
                        
                        When: Thursday, December 10th (6pm-8pm)
                        
                        Where: Fogelman Galleries
                        
                        Directions: Click Here
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Box Show:
                     
                     Oh, Sanctuary!
                     
                     
                     
                     Featuring new work by graduating senior, Anna Maranise. . . .
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        When: November 21- December 9
                        
                        Where: Box Gallery
                        
                        Closing Reception: Friday, December 4, 2015 ( 5:00 - 7:00 PM)
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     
                     Virginia Overton was born in Nashville, Tennessee and lives and works in Brooklyn, New York. She received
                        her BFA and MFA from the University of Memphis. Recent solo exhibitions include White
                        Cube, London (2015), Museum of Contemporary Art, North Miami (2014), Westfälischer
                        Kunstverein, Munster (2013-4), Kunsthalle Bern (2013), The Power Station, Dallas (2013)
                        and Power House, Memphis (2007).
                     
                     
                     Overton's work comprises installation, sculpture and photography, often beginning
                        intuitively as a direct response to her physical presence in a particular space. Through
                        a process of trial and error, she creates sculpture that is performative, sometimes
                        obstructing, bisecting, dividing or joining the architecture of a space with works
                        that are dramatic and minimal in feel. Schedule while on campus. All events are open, with the exception of the graduate
                        studio visits, which are individual meetings.
                     
                     
                     Wednesday, Nov 18:
                     
                     2:30 – 4:30 Fogelman Galleries Meet with Senior BFA students in FOOD, their exit exhibition, Informal discussion/critique
                        of work in the exhibition.
                     
                     
                     7:00 –8:30 Room 310, ACB public talk with Q&A
                     
                     
                     Thursday, Nov 19:
                     
                     10:00 – 5:00 Sculpture Studio casting project/workshop
                     
                     
                     Friday, Nov 20:
                     
                     9:00 –3:00 Studio visits with Graduate Students sign up sheet will be available. Check with Jed Jackson
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      inveterate: toni collums roberts
                     
                     November 23 – December 4, 2015 The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art is pleased to present
                        inveterate: toni collums roberts. For this MFA thesis exhibition, Collums Roberts
                        has created a body work lacking the standards of today's visual culture. Spanning
                        both gallery spaces with an installation-based performance involving 8,000 plaster
                        cubes in one, and a video in the other, the exhibition is an attempt at creating a
                        fertile place for boredom to be generated, questioned, or ignored. The combination
                        of these elements creates a space for theories of art and philosophy to merge and
                        morph, examining the possibility that technology's perpetuation of boredom is at the
                        root of contemporary society's darkest fantasies.
                     
                     
                     Collums Roberts' performance will occur daily throughout the duration of the exhibition.
                        A closing reception will be held in the Galleries on Friday, December 4 from 5 to
                        8 pm (Collums Roberts will perform from 5 to 6:30 pm).
                     
                     
                     The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art is open Monday through
                        Friday from 9 am to 4 pm, but will be closed November 25-29, for the Thanksgiving
                        holiday.
                     
                     
                     For more information, please contact fogelmangalleries@memphis.edu or 901.678.3052.
                     
                     
                     The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art The University of Memphis Art and Communication Bldg. Rooms 230 and 240 3715 Central Ave. Memphis, TN 38152 
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     University of Memphis Art Education Alumni Juried Exhibition, 2016
                     
                     SCHEDULE:
                     
                     
                        
                        February 8 Art Alumni/Student Submission Deadline and accepting work  3:30-5:30, Gallery A, Art and Communication Building, 3715 Central Avenue.
                        
                        February 19 Opening Reception - 3:30-5:30 pm Awards at 4:00, The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries
                           of Contemporary Art.
                        
                        
                        March 14 Pick up work - 3:30-5:30 Art and Communication Building, room 114, Art Education.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     CRITERIA:
                     
                     
                        
                        Title: University of Memphis 10th Annual Art Education Alumni Juried Exhibition
                        
                        Theme: "Finding New Words Through Vision and Creativity"
                        
                        Media Focus: Painting, Collage, Assemblage, Ceramics, Mixed Media, Print, Pastel, Photography
                        
                     
                     
                     Each alumni must submit one recent work of art, and two students work (one male and
                        one female). The artwork must communicate visually the theme of "Finding New Words Through Vision and Creativity". Student work may or may not show a relationship to their Art Teacher's work. Share
                        your visual interpretation of finding new words through creativity and vision. This
                        theme can be visually communicated through content or media.
                     
                     
                     The University of Memphis Annual Art Education Alumni Juried Exhibition features area
                        K-12 art educators who are graduates of The University of Memphis Art Education Program,
                        or who have completed coursework at the University during their teaching preparation
                        or careers. This exhibition is held each year during Youth Art Month and is in accordance
                        with the mission and vision of The University of Memphis, the Department of Art, and
                        the Tennessee Art Education Association.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Bruce West Gallery Talk and Book Signing
                     
                     Friday, November 6, 5-6:30 PM (galleries open until 8 PM) The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art 3715 Central Ave. Rooms 230 and 240
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Missouri-based photographer Bruce West will speak about his work in the galleries
                        and will be signing copies of his book The True Gospel Preached Here (2014, University Press of Mississippi) afterwards. Books will be available for purchase
                        at the event and are currently on sale in The University of Memphis Bookstore.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Gallery talk and book signing will go from 5 to 6:30 PM. The galleries will remain
                        open for reception until 8 PM. This event will also serve as a closing reception for
                        the exhibitions "The True Gospel Preached Here: Photographs by Bruce West" and "Memphis
                        Collects Contemporary Folk Art," on view at The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries
                        of Contemporary Art from October 5 to November 6.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      Beth Edwards
                     
                     oh happy day Oct. 27-Nov. 24th at David Lusk Gallery Opening Friday, Oct. 30th 6:00-8:00
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     
                     U of M's Egyptian Institute Will Host November 17th Lecture "Egyptology in Nazi Germany: Ideology and Careers in a Humanistic Discipline"
                     
                     
                     The Institute of Egyptian Art & Archaeology and the History Department of the University
                        of Memphis, in association with the Tennessee Chapter of the American Research Center
                        in Egypt, will co-host the tenth annual William J. Murnane Memorial Lecture on Tuesday,
                        Nov. 17th in the University Center Fountain View Suite (room 350). Dr. Thomas Schneider,
                        Professor of Egyptology and Near Eastern Studies at the University of British Columbia,
                        will present at 7:00 p.m. A reception will precede the lecture, at 6:15 p.m. Both
                        events are free and open to the public. Pay parking is available in the Zach Curlin
                        garage adjacent to the University Center. Professor Schneider earned his Master's degree and Doctorate in Egyptology at the
                        University of Basel, Switzerland. An internationally known scholar, he has held professorships
                        and research positions at the University of Vienna; University of Heidelberg; New
                        York University; the University of California, Berkeley; the University of Basel;
                        and the University of Wales, Swansea, where he also served as Chair in Egyptology.
                        He has published widely in his main areas of research—Egyptian interconnections with
                        the Levant and the Near East, and ancient Egyptian history and chronology—and is currently
                        completing a monograph on the history of Egyptology in Nazi Germany.
                     
                     
                     Professor Schneider will be speaking on the reception of Egyptology under the Third
                        Reich, as an example of how tenets of academic and professional integrity might succumb
                        to political pressure. His lecture will provide an overview of Egyptologists working
                        in Germany through the end of the Second World War. This biographical survey will
                        include persecuted emigrants as well as scholars who actively aligned themselves with
                        the new regime and attempted to subvert Egyptology to the doctrines of National Socialism.
                     
                     
                     For more information, call Dr. Joshua Roberson at 901-678-3895 or the IEAA at 901-678-2555.
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     
                     U of M's Art Department Hosts November 9th Lecture by Dorothy Kayser Hohenberg Chair
                        of Excellence in Art History
                     
                     
                     "Ai Weiwei and the Art of the Zodiac" by Elizabeth Childs-Johnson, Ph.D.
                     
                     
                     When: Monday, November 9th, 2015 at 7:00 PM preceded by a reception at 6:15PM Where: Michael D. Rose Theatre Entertainment Lobby, Room 115 Free and open to the public. Pay parking is available in the Zach Curlin garage adjacent
                        to the University Center.
                     
                     
                     Professor Childs-Johnson earned her M.A. and Ph.D. degrees in Near Eastern art and
                        archaeology and Chinese archaeology and art history at the Institute of Fine Arts,
                        New York University. An internationally known scholar, she is the senior editor of
                        The Oxford Handbook on Early China and has held professorships and research positions
                        in the U.S. and in China at the East Asian Studies Institute, Old Dominion University;
                        Fordham University; New York University; Columbia University; Institute of Ancient
                        History CASS Beijing; International LIangzhu Culture Studies Center, Yuhang, Zhejiang;
                        Hamilton College; University of CA Santa Barbara; and the National Gallery of Art,
                        Washington DC. She has published extensively in her main areas of research—Jade Age
                        China and how ancient scripts reveal ancient belief systems in Bronze Age art—and
                        is currently finalizing a monograph on Shang ritual art and religion. Professor Childs-Johnson will talk about the significance of ancient Chinese art of
                        the zodiac in light of Ai Weiwei's recent creation of "Circle of Animals/Zodiac Heads,"
                        installed in 2011 at the historic Pulitzer Fountain at the Grand Army Plaza in front
                        of the Plaza Hotel, New York City.
                     
                     
                     For more information contact: Dr. Lorelei Corcoran, 901.678.2555
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Two UofM Exhibitions Celebrate Contemporary Folk Art
                     
                     October 7, 2015 - The exhibitions "The True Gospel Preached Here: Photographs by Bruce
                        West" and "Memphis Collects Contemporary Folk Art" at the Martha and Robert Fogelman
                        Galleries of Contemporary Art at the University of Memphis are on display now until
                        Nov. 6.
                     
                     
                     "The True Gospel Preached Here" features a selection of photographs by Bruce West
                        documenting the spiritual and creative work of the Rev. H. D. Dennis (1916-2012),
                        a self-proclaimed preacher, artist and architect, and his wife Margaret (1916-2009),
                        in Vicksburg, Miss. West's vibrant photographs explore the fantastic world of the
                        couple who devoted more than 20 years of their lives to converting Margaret's grocery
                        store into an eclectic nondenominational church.
                     
                     
                     Guided by visions from God, the Rev. H.D. and Margaret erected several painted towers,
                        constructed their own Ark of the Covenant and developed new religious iconography.
                        Rev. Dennis used his ever-evolving church as a roadside attraction to draw in visitors
                        to hear his fiery sermons and orations. A sign at the site's entrance proclaimed,
                        "The True Gospel Preached Here."
                     
                     
                     Spanning nearly 20 years and multiple site visits, West's photographs are both intimate
                        and bold, revealing the couple's love of God and one another, a sense of commitment
                        to one's work and the transformation of person and place. West is a professor in the
                        Department of Art and Design at Missouri State University. His photographs have appeared
                        in numerous exhibitions throughout the United States and Europe and are included in
                        museum collections such as the Ogden Museum of Southern Art, the Library of Congress,
                        the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art and the Victoria and Albert Museum.
                     
                     
                     Showcasing standout works from several local private collections, "Memphis Collects
                        Contemporary Folk Art" features the paintings, drawings and sculptures of more than
                        25 self-taught artists, ranging from Rev. Howard Finster, perhaps the South's most
                        famous contemporary folk artist, to the little-known Memphian Floyd "Pussum" Glover.
                        Highlighted are the unconventional materials used by these artists and the common
                        interests they share in religion, social issues and popular culture.
                     
                     
                     The exhibition also considers the usage of the terms "contemporary folk art" and "outsider
                        art." Contemporary folk art refers to work produced by unschooled artists of the 20th
                        and 21st centuries. Outsider art most appropriately describes the highly individualistic
                        creations of self-taught artists with atypical mental states or disabilities. Central
                        to both is their making at the hands of artists who have taught themselves. "Memphis
                        Collects Contemporary Folk Art" is curated by Dr. Carol Crown, professor emerita in
                        art history at the UofM. Crown is author of numerous publications including Coming
                        Home! Self-Taught Artists, The Bible, and the American South and The New Encyclopedia
                        of Southern Culture Volume 23: Folk Art.
                     
                     
                     "The True Gospel Preached Here: Photographs by Bruce West" and "Memphis Collects Contemporary
                        Folk Art" coincide with the Folk Art Society of America's annual conference, which
                        will be held in Memphis from Nov. 5-8. A free symposium featuring leading scholars
                        of folk art and music will be held Saturday, Nov. 7, from 9 a.m. to noon in 310 Art
                        and Communication Building at the UofM.
                     
                     
                     The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art are located in rooms
                        230 and 240 of the Art and Communication Building, 3715 Central Ave., and provide
                        vastly expanded professional display space for the Art Department. The galleries serve
                        as a valuable educational experience for our students. Additionally, it gives the
                        College of Communication and Fine Arts expanded capacity to bring contemporary working
                        artists to campus to enrich the curriculum and broaden our students' understanding
                        of today's art world within the national and international context.
                     
                     
                     For more information, contact Patricia Lee Daigle, pldaigle@memphis.edu or 901.678.3052.
                     
                     
                     RELATED EVENTS AND PROGRAMMING Conversation with the Collectors Thursday, Oct. 22, 5-7 pm The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art
                     
                     
                     Join collectors John Jerit, Rollin Riggs and Craig Wiener for a casual conversation
                        moderated by Dr. Carol Crown in the galleries as they discuss their interest in folk
                        art and their passion for collecting.
                     
                     
                     Bruce West Gallery Talk and Book Signing Friday, Nov. 6, 5-8 pm The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art
                     
                     
                     Photographer Bruce West will speak about his work and will be signing copies of his
                        book The True Gospel Preached Here (2014, University Press of Mississippi) afterwards.
                        Books will be available for purchase. This event will also serve as a closing reception
                        for both exhibitions.
                     
                     
                     Contact: Kimberly Rogers 901.678.4164 krogers@memphis.edu
                     
                     
                     
                     Study Abroad in Italy information meeting
                     
                     Digital Photography and Art Education Meeman Building room 204 Monday, October 5, 2:30pm For more information please contact David Horan dhoran@memphis.edu or Bryna Bobick bbobick@memphis.edu
                     
                     
                     
                     UofM Art History professor Todd Richardson gives talk at inaugural TEDx Memphis event
                     
                     September 21, 2015
                     
                     
                     
                     Dr. Todd Richardson, associate professor of art history, recently presented "The Dilemma
                        of Discovery" at the inaugural TEDx Memphis event held at the Michael D. Rose Theater.
                     
                     
                     Memphis, like a number of mid-sized American cities, is experiencing a renaissance.
                        In this talk, Richardson asks what that word really means. Despite popular perception,
                        he explains, it has little to do with growth or innovation. It's about recognizing
                        the value of what's already present and reclaiming it for a new purpose. Richardson
                        marries his expertise as a Renaissance scholar with his work as co-leader of Crosstown
                        Concourse, the renovation of a historic, 1.5 million square foot former Sears Distribution
                        Center in Midtown Memphis.
                     
                     
                     Click here to view the video
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Box Gallery Show:
                     
                     Navigator
                     
                     
                     
                     Featuring new paintings and installation by Laura J. Lawson. ... When: September 24th –October 14th Where: Box Gallery, University of Memphis, Art & Communication Bldg 1st Floor, Reception: Friday, September 25, 2015 ( 5:00 - 7:00 PM)
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        News/Events
                        
                           
                              
                              Fall 2016
                              Spring 2016
                              Fall 2015
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply now!
                              Be part of our artistic community.
                           
                           
                              Visit! 
                              The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art
                           
                           
                              Donate now!
                              Support future professional artists.
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Office hours and location
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 11/8/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/art/news_events/fallfifteen.php
