http://www.memphis.edu/efiles/kudos/index.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Arts & Sciences E-Files Newsletter
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Headlines
                        Announcements
                        Faculty Focus
                        College Events
                        Department Seminars
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	E-Files
                              	
                        
                           	
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     
                     
                       
                     
                     
                     Faculty / Department Kudos
                     
                     Many College of Arts and Sciences faculty members are featured in the online award
                        site Accolades. Please make sure and visit Accolades to read more about the exciting
                        research and programs presented by our faculty.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        The Benjamin Hooks Institute for Social Change
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                              What an Exciting Gala We Had This Year! Marvin J. Ellison speaks at the 2016 Hooks Gala.
                              
                              
                              Talent has no gender, race, ethnicity or class; but it does require opportunity and hard work to manifest. The career of Marvin J. Ellison,
                                 CEO JCPenney and University of Memphis (UofM) Alumnus, exemplifies hard work and talent.
                              
                              
                              The Hooks Institute's April 21, 2016 Gala honored the perseverance and success of
                                 Marvin J. Ellison, one of only five African American CEOs currently leading a Fortune
                                 500 company. In his speech, Ellison remarked on his experiences growing up in Brownsville
                                 Tennessee, and how these lessons prepared him for the challenges of leading JCPenney.
                                 As a child Ellison often met hardworking and intelligent people, much like his parents,
                                 striving to support their families. This connection with small town America instilled
                                 in Ellison the drive to keep things simple, and the insight to listen to the needs
                                 and ideas of all employees, from the store clerk to the CEO, while leading a large
                                 corporation.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Department of Anthropology
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              New Book by Dr. Keri Brondo
                              
                              Cultural Anthropology: Contemporary, Public, and Critical Readings (Oxford University Press, 2016) helps students think anthropologically by introducing
                                 core concepts through engaging case studies. The majority of selections are contemporary
                                 pieces from public, critical, and applied anthropology. These timely readings will
                                 generate discussion among students regarding the value of an anthropological perspective
                                 in the modern world. While the selections represent a range of geographic and cultural
                                 areas, the book includes a high number of U.S.-based fieldwork examples so that students
                                 are inspired to think anthropologically "in their own backyards." Several case studies
                                 offer examples of anthropology in action, and special features throughout the text
                                 profile anthropological application through news stories ("In the News") and interviews
                                 ("Anthropology in Practice").
                              
                              
                              New Book by Dr. Chris Barton 
                              
                              Historical Racialized Toys in the United States (Routledge, 2016)by Dr. Barton and co-author Kyle Somerville has just been released
                                 for publication. According to the official description, "This book explores the history
                                 of children's toys and games bearing racial stereotypes, and the role these objects
                                 played in the creation and maintenance of structures of racialism and racism in the
                                 United States, from approximately 1865 to the 1930s. This time period is one in which
                                 the creation of structures of childhood and children's socialization into race was
                                 fostered. Additionally, commodities, like toys, were didactic and disciplinary media
                                 in the creation, modification and reproduction of Victorian society."
                              
                              
                              Dr. Keri Vacanti Brondo and her team members on receive a Center for Collaborative
                                 Conservation (CCC) fellowship
                              
                              
                              The Center for Collaborative Conservation at Warner College of Natural Resources at
                                 Colorado State University awarded Dr. Brondo and her research team a fellowship grant
                                 in support of their on-going community-based research in Honduras. Dr. Suzanne Kent
                                 from CSU and Dr. Arlene Hill from the Earth Science Dept. at the U of M are also members
                                 of the team, one of only two teams to receive CCC fellowship funding this cycle.
                              
                              
                              Dr. Stan Hyland , professor emeritus of Anthropology and former director of the School of Urban Affairs
                                 and Public Policy, will be honored with the 2016 Sol Tax Distinguished Service Award.
                                 The award is presented annually to a member of the Society for Applied Anthropology
                                 (SfAA) in recognition of long-term and distinguished service. The winner will have
                                 made long-term and exceptional contributions in one or more of the following areas:
                                 leadership in SfAA organizational structure, activities and policy development; central
                                 roles in communication with other disciplines or sub-disciplines; editing and publishing;
                                 development of curricula in applied anthropology; formulation of ethical standards
                                 of practice; or other innovative activities which promote the goals of the society
                                 and the field of applied anthropology to the public. Hyland will reflect on his career
                                 at the SfAA annual meeting awards ceremony in Vancouver, British Columbia, on April
                                 1.
                              
                              
                              Dr. Ruthbeth Finerman , professor and chair of Anthropology, was elected to the board of directors of the
                                 Society for Applied Anthropology. The SfAA is a worldwide organization for the applied
                                 social sciences, founded in 1941 “to promote the integration of anthropological perspectives
                                 and methods in solving human problems throughout the world; to advocate for fair and
                                 just public policy based upon sound research; to promote public recognition of anthropology
                                 as a profession; and to support the continuing professionalization of the field.”
                                 Finerman will begin her three-year term during the society’s annual meeting in Vancouver,
                                 British Columbia, March 29-April 3.
                              
                              
                              Dr. Chris Barton received a US congressional proclamation , Burlington county freeholders proclamation , and a certificate of merit from Westampton, New Jersey mayoral office for his work at Timbuctoo African American
                                 Archaeology site. For additional information on this work, please visit the website
                                 at: http://articles.philly.com/2010-07-01/news/24964248_1_site-century-bottle or contact Dr. Barton at cpbarton@memph
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Department of Biological Sciences
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              BBC.com quoted our own Dr. Keith Bowers to answer the question "Why billionaires have more sons". Dr. Bowers indicated that
                                 there are good reasons why the population never veers too far from an equal number
                                 of girls and boys. Read his full answer here .
                              
                              
                              Weevil workshop a success! Dr. Duane McKenna's lab hosts 2016 International Weevil Meeting in Orlando, FL. 
                              
                              Congratulations to Dr. Madhumita Paul who successfully defended her dissertation entitled “Intermediate Filament Protein
                                 Synemin: Regulation by Exogenous Factors and Role in Astrocytoma Proliferation through
                                 Interaction with Protein Phosphatase 2A”. Dr. Paul did her dissertation work in the
                                 lab of Dr. Omar Skalli .
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              Professor awarded 1.35 million to study stem cells at the University of Memphis
                              
                              Dr. Amy Abell , an assistant professor in the department of Biological Sciences, has been awarded
                                 a five-year grant from the National Institutes of Health to study stem cells. Her
                                 work examines a developmental program that controls the conversion of stationery epithelial
                                 stem cells to invasive mesenchymal cells. Reactivation of this developmental program
                                 in cancer cells promotes cancer metastasis and resistance to therapy, which are the
                                 primary causes of death in cancer patients. Her goal is to identify new genes that
                                 control this change that can be used as biomarkers and druggable targets to detect
                                 and treat cancer. By identifying new targets that regulate the change of epithelial
                                 cells into mesenchymal cells, her work will lead to the development of novel strategies
                                 to prevent or reverse metastasis in cancer.
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              Great time at #Botany2016 in Savannah! UoM represented with undergrad/grad talks and
                                 a half day workshop!
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Department of Computer Science
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              Department chair Prof. Lan Wang has been promoted to Full Professor. Prof. Wang joined the Department in Fall 2004
                                 and was promoted to Associate Professor in 2010. She has served as the graduate coordinator
                                 and associate chair, and became the department chair in Jan. 2016. She also serves
                                 on the university's Intellectual Property Advisory Board. For more information on
                                 Dr. Lang's research, visit her webpages .
                              
                              
                              Prof. Vasile Rus and postdoc Dr. Dan Stefanescu won the Best Paper Award at the 2nd International Conference on Smart Learning Environments
                                 (ICSLE 2015) for their paper entitled "Towards Non-Intrusive Assessment in Dialogue-based
                                 Intelligent Tutoring Systems." ICSLE is an upcoming leading conference in the areaof
                                 learning technologies with a highly competitive acceptance rate which this year was
                                 at 23% for full papers 
                              
                              
                              The Department's students and faculty have had papers accepted at several top-tier
                                    conferences this year.
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Prof. Scott Fleming and Austin Henley , along with collaborators from Oregon State, have had a full research paper accepted
                                    at ACM FSE'16 , one of the two top software engineering conferences.
                                 
                                 
                                 Nazir Saleheen and Soujanya Chatterjee (from Prof. Santosh Kumar 's mHealth Systems Lab ) have one paper each in ACM UbiComp'16 as lead authors.
                                 
                                 
                                 Nazir Saleheen is also a co-author on an ICML'16 paper with collaborators from the University of Massachusetts - Amherst.
                                 
                                 
                                 Hillol Sarker (from Prof. Santosh Kumar 's mHealth Systems Lab ) had a paper in ACM CHI'16 as lead author.
                                 
                                 
                                 Prof. Deepak Venugopal and Kyle Cherry presented a full paper at UAI'16 , the premier conference for probabilistic models.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              Names in the News: Prof. Santosh Kumar
                              
                              Prof. Santosh Kumar has had his work with the mHealth Systems Lab featured in several
                                 recent news articles. Read More
                              
                              Prof. Dasgupta on WMC Action News 5
                              
                              Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta was featured on a WMC Action News 5 segment this morning,
                                 publicizing the upcoming GenCyber Boot Camp for middle-school students. More Information
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Department of Earth Science
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              2016. A Antipova (Chair, Presenter, Organizer of two paper sessions "Neighborhood satisfaction and
                                 quality of life within an urban environment", session 1 and 2). Neighborhoods and
                                 urban amenities: a study of perceived preferences and stated satisfactions. 61st Annual
                                 Meeting of the Association of American Geographers (AAG), March 29-April 2, 2016.
                                 San Francisco, CA
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Department of English & Creative Writing
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              The English Department wishes to congratulate several notable alumni whose work(s)
                                 were published in the last several months of 2015 and the beginning of this year,
                                 including Amina Gaye ,a recent graduate from of U of M's Department of English, was published in the International Journal of English Language and Translation Studies (l ink). PhD student Dr. Abdurrazzag Alghammas announced the publication of his new book, "Collaborative Autonomous English Language Learning in CALL."   ( link 2
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              Cosetta Gaudenzi, Diana Ruggiero, Francisco Vivar, Pilar Alcade, and Yuki Matsuda have received College of Arts and Sciences Travel Grants for summer 2016. These grants
                                 are available to both faculty and students to travel to conferences or for research
                                 purposes. Congratulations!
                              
                              
                              Thank you to all of the students and faculty who made the 2016 Foreign Language Fair
                                 successful. The theme was "25 Years of Bringing the World Together." Thank you to
                                 all of the students, teachers, and faculty who participated in events and judging.
                                 Please congratulate the Fair organizers, Spanish Instructors Jennifer Johnston and Lindsey Aston , for their hard work and excellent results. For more information about the event,
                                 visit the department webpage .
                              
                              
                              Congratulations to U of M alumni Jordan Bacon and Camille Maynard who were accepted into the 2016-17 Teaching Assistant Program in France. For more
                                 information about the program, see http://highereducation.frencheducation.org/teach-in-france/prospective-applicants
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Department of History
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              Remembering Reconstruction: The Memphis Massacre of 1866
                              
                              Drs. Susan O'Donovan and Beverly Bond blog was recently republished in the OAH Process
                                 History website. Beverly Bond is an associate professor of history at the University
                                 of Memphis and the former director of the African and African American studies program
                                 there. Susan Eva O’Donovan is an associate professor of history at the University
                                 of Memphis and an OAH Distinguished Lecturer. An excerpt from the article is: "For
                                 150 years Reconstruction has failed to make that commemorative cut. As a people we
                                 did not believe those tumultuous years that unfolded in the wake of the Confederate
                                 surrender have been worth the effort of public recognition. Why this has been the
                                 case is a question tangled up in a long history of slavery, racism, and Jim Crow."
                                 Please visit the www.processhisotry.org website to read the entire article.
                              
                              
                              From May 23-June 4 Dr. Dan Unowsky helped lead a Holocaust Travel Seminar out of Rhodes College. The group had 18 participants
                                 and three professors (Dr. Unowsky, Dr. Jonathan Judaken, and Dr. Stephen Haynes, both
                                 of the latter Rhodes Faculty.) You can check out the trip and photos here: https://www.facebook.com/travelseminar/?pnref=story .
                              
                              
                              Dr. Duenas Vargas had an exciting 2016. She delivered a number of papers, most recently for at CEISAL2016
                                 Tiempos posthegemónicos: sociedad, cultura y política en America Latina, Instituto
                                 de Iberoamerica, Universidad de Salamanca, Salamanca, España, June 28, July1, 2016.
                                 The month prior she attended ADEH2016 Association of Historical Demography, June 21-24,
                                 2016, in Cadiz, Spain and delivered a paper titled "Hombres, mujeres, y muchos niños.
                                 El censo de viruelas de 1801 en Santa Fe de Bogotá" (Women, Men and many children.
                                 The Smallpox census, 1801 in Santa Fe de Bogotá."
                              
                              
                              She also has two chapters coming out, an introductory chapter for the forthcoming
                                 book, Las cosas del querer: Amor, familia y matrimonio in Iberoamerica. (Endearing
                                 things: Love, family and marriage in Hispanic America), and one titled "Who is afraid
                                 of Emotions"? in Las cosas del querer: Amor, familia y matrimonio in Iberoamérica.
                                 (Endearing things: Love, family and marriage in Hispanic America). You can read more
                                 about Dr. Duenas Vargas on her faculty page .
                              
                              
                              Dr. Dennis Laumann participated in the Ghana Studies Association Triennial Conference 2016 at the University
                                 of Cape Coast in Ghana on July 6-9. He presented a paper entitled "The origins, development,
                                 and influence of the Hare Krishna Movement in Ghana" and also participated in a roundtable
                                 entitled "The Politics and Practice of Study Abroad Programs in Ghana." Besides the
                                 conference, he spent three weeks in Ghana doing archival and field research and collaborating
                                 with his colleague, Dr. Kofi Baku of the University of Ghana, on a monograph on Ghana's
                                 history. (The photo at the top of this page includes from left to right: Dr. Benjamin
                                 Talton (Temple University), president of the GSA 2012-2015; Dr. Nana Akua Anyidoho
                                 (University of Ghana), current GSA President; Dr. Ato Quayson (University of Toronto),
                                 keynote speaker at the conference; and Dr. Laumann.)
                              
                              
                              Dr. Stephen Stein will be the interim chair of the Department of History during Aram Goudsouzian's
                                 leave. Dr. Stein has been serving as the Associate Chair of the department, with major
                                 responsibilities of course scheduling and overseeing part-time faculty. The main architect
                                 of the department’s innovative online program, he is also an accomplished scholar
                                 of military history. Read more about Dr. Stein .
                              
                              
                              In the second half of May Dr. Peter Brand returned to China for his second trip there to see the sites and meet with his Chinese
                                 colleagues in the field of Egyptology. He had a couple of lectures at the Chinese
                                 Academy of Social Sciences in Beijing. During his week long stay in Beijing, which
                                 means "the Northern Capital," he saw the Forbidden City, the Great Wall and the Ming
                                 Dynasty royal tombs, all of which equal or exceed the grandeur of Ancient Egyptian
                                 monuments in the Valley of the Kings, the Great Pyramids or Karnak Temple. Next he
                                 travelled to Changchun in Northeast China to give four lectures at Northeast Normal
                                 University and to visit with his colleague Professor Li Xiaodong, the most senior
                                 Egyptologist in China, and his colleagues and students. Prof. Li and two Chinese students
                                 will work with Dr. Brand and his students at Karnak Temple for the Fall 2016 season
                                 of the Karnak Hypostyle Hall Project.
                              
                              
                              Congratulations to Dr. Colin Chapell , whose first book, "'Ye That Are Men Now Serve Him': Radical Holiness Theology and
                                 Gender in the South," was published by the University of Alabama Press! "Modernity
                                 remade much of the world in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries and
                                 was nowhere more transformational than in the American South. In the wake of the Civil
                                 War, the region not only formed new legal, financial, and social structures, but citizens
                                 of the South also faced disorienting uncertainty about personal identity and even
                                 gender itself. Ye That Are Men Now Serve Him traces the changes in southern gender
                                 roles during the New South period of 1877–1915 and demonstrates that religion is the
                                 key to perceiving how constructions of gender changed."
                              
                              
                              Who knew that Germany would be a hot spot this summer for discussing port cities and
                                 maritime imperialism!? Dr. Catherine Phipps was invited to two different workshops there this summer. The first was on Treaty
                                 Ports in East Asia and was held at Heidelberg University in mid-June. Scholars of
                                 Japan, China, and Korea came together from around the world to discuss their current
                                 work on treaty ports as well as trends in and future possibilities for the field.
                                 The second workshop, Imperial Port Cities in the Age of Steam, was held in mid-July
                                 in Berlin (in connection with the Freie Universität, Technische Universität, and Humboldt
                                 Universität). These discussions centered on the specific characteristics and histories
                                 of port cities, as well as on their connections, differences, and limitations as subjects
                                 of study. In describing her trip Dr. Phipps told us "I got a lot out of both workshops,
                                 met and reconnected with some wonderful people, and thoroughly enjoyed exploring the
                                 cities of Heidelberg and Berlin!"
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Department of Mathematical Sciences
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              A Celebration of Research
                              
                              Dr. Jerome Goldstein was recently honored for his research and work in mathematics in a one day conference.
                                 The event was held at the University of Poitiers in France on June 23. His research
                                 interests include Linear and nonlinear PDE, operator theory, stochastic processes,
                                 mathematical physics, classical analysis, applied analysis, financial mathematics.
                                 View Poster .
                              
                              
                              Drs. Irena Lasiecka and Robert Triggiani
                              participated in and presented several lectures and presentations during the spring
                              2016 semester. In May, Dr. Lasiecka gave the Key note Lecture at the International
                              Conference on Evolution Equations, Vanderbilt University, May 16-20, 2016.
                              
                              She was invited to address the American Mathematical Society (AMS) Meeting with a
                                 presentation entitled, "Mathematical Theory of PDE dynamics arising in fluid-flow
                                 structure inetractions." The meeting was held at Stony Brook, NY, March 19-20, 2016.
                              
                              
                              Dr. Lasiecka was a Keynote speaker at the International Conference on Evolution Equations,
                                 at Vanderbilt University, May 16-20, 2016. She was also one of the Main Speakers at
                                 the IMA (Institute for Mathematics and Applications) Workshop on Computational Methods
                                 for Control of infinite Dimensional System, University of Minnesota, March 14-18,
                                 2016,
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              Irena Lasiecka and Roberto Triggiani gave Main Lectures on "Optimal Control of Evolutionary
                                 PDE" at the INDAM meeting OCERTO 2016 -Cortona, June 20-24, 2016. They also gave Lectures
                                 on "Mathematical Theory of Evolutionary Fluid-Flow Structure Inetractions" within
                                 the Series Oberwolfach (Germany) Seminars 2016 along with Barbara Kaltenbacher (Klagenfurt
                                 Univ) and Igor Kukavica (USC, Los Angeles).
                              
                              
                              Dr. George Anastassiou , professor of mathematics, participated and presented two articles at the annual
                                 meeting of American Mathematical Society held in Seattle Jan. 6-9. One of the articles
                                 was an invited lecture, a joint work delivered by his graduate student, Merve Kester .
                              
                              
                              1. Irena Lasiecka , Distinguished University Professor and Chair of the Department of Mathematical Science,
                                 will deliver a Plenary Lecture (one of three Plenary Lectures) at the American Mathematical
                                 Society (AMS) Conference to be held in Stony Brook, NY on March 19, 2016 . The title of her lecture is Mathematical
                                 Theory of PDE-dynamics Arising in Fluid-Flow Structure Interactions. See the attached pdf with the information (her
                                 name is at the bottom of the left column under Invited Addresses
                              
                              
                              2. Irena Lasiecka and Roberto Triggiani (Distinguished University Professor at DMS) have been selected by the Mathematisches Forschungsinstitut Oberwolfach as the main organizers of Oberwolfach
                                 Seminars Series 2016. Along with Prof. I. Kukavica (University of Southern California, Los Angeles ) and
                                 Barbara Kaltenbacher (Klagenfurt University), they will deliver a one week-long series of seminar lectures on Mathematical Theory
                                 of Evolutionary Fluid Structure Interaction to an international audience of PhD students and post-Docs. From the Oberwolfach
                                 announcement:
                              
                              
                              The Oberwolfach Seminars are organized by leading experts in the field, and address
                                 to Postdocs and PhD's students from all over the world. The aim is to introduce the
                                 participants to a particular interesting development. 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Department of Physics and Materials Science
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              2016 Ralph E. Powe Junior Faculty Enhancement Award in Physical Sciences
                              
                              The Oak Ridge Associated Universities recognized Dr. Xiao Shen with the 2016 Ralph E. Powe Junior Faculty Enhancement Award in Physical Sciences. The
                                 Awards provide seed money for research by junior faculty at ORAU member institutions. These awards are intended to enrich the research and professional
                                 growth of young faculty and result in new funding opportunities. For more information
                                 about Dr. Shen's research, visit his webpage .
                              
                              
                              Physics Faculty Recognized for Exceptional Teaching and Research
                              
                              Dr. Mohamed Laradji is the recipient of the Alumni Association Distinguished Research in Science, Engineering
                                 and Mathematics. The Alumni Association may make up to five awards annually to faculty
                                 who have brought honor and recognition to the University through their research or
                                 creative activities. 
                              
                              
                              Ms. Joanne Rhodes is the recipient of the Thomas W. Briggs Foundation Award for Teaching award. The
                                 Briggs Award recognizes teaching excellence at the undergraduate level and overall
                                 commitment to undergraduate education.
                              
                              
                              Both awards were presented at the Faculty Convocation. ( UofM press release )
                              
                              
                              UofM Scholars Publish Paper in Esteemed Journal
                              
                              Congratulations to our very own Xiumei Geng and Weiwei Sun (both students of Dr. Jingbiao Cui , Chair), who recently published an article in a leading journal. Their research reveals
                                    new possibilities for the synthesis of stable, two-dimensional Metallic-phase MoS2
                                    nanosheets in water. Read the article   here . 
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Department of Political Science
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              Dr. Dursun Peksen's article “ Dying for Globalization? The Impact of Economic Globalization on Industrial Accidents ,” (co-authored with our former colleague Rob Blanton ) was accepted for publication at Social Science Quarterly. Also, Newsweek (and LSE’s
                                 Democracy Audit blog) just published an opinion piece on market liberalization Dr.
                                 Peksen and Dr. Blanton wrote together: http://www.newsweek.com/we-need-protect-workers-rights-neol….
                                 In addition, Dr. Peksen has another piece published by Korea Economic Institute: “Authoritarian
                                 Regimes and Economic Sanction Effectiveness: The Case of North Korea,” Academic Paper
                                 Series, Korea Economic Institute of America. An he was invited to write an opinion
                                 piece on North Korea and Sanctions by the Diplomat magazine .
                              
                              
                              Dr. Michael Sances and his colleague Joshua Clinton of Vanderbilt University have been awarded a grant
                                 from the Russell Sage Foundation for their project "Policy Making Politics? The Mass
                                 Political Impact of Medicaid Expansions." The grant of $28,095 for the next two years
                                 is under the Russell Sage Foundation's program "The Social, Economic and Political
                                 Effects of the Affordable Care Act".
                              
                              
                              Dr. Sharon Stanley has been selected as the recipient of the 2016 University of Memphis Alumni Association
                                 Distinguished Teaching Award. This is a tremendous recognition of the quality of Dr.
                                 Stanley's teaching.
                              
                              
                              Dr. Sharon Stanley's article "John Stuart Mill, Children's Liberty, and the Unraveling of Autonomy" has
                                 been accepted for publication at the Review of Politics. The Review of Politics is
                                 one of the top ranked, refereed journals in the area of political theory.
                              
                              
                              Dr. Sharon Stanley, Associate Professor of Political Science, Dunavant Professor 2014-17, and 2016 Deborah
                                 L. Talbot Fellow in Interdisciplinary Inquiry at the Marcus W. Orr Center for the
                                 Humanities, has received a contract for her book "An Impossible Dream? Racial Integration
                                 in the United States" from Oxford University Press! Oxford University Press is one
                                 of the top publishers in political science. This book is Dr. Stanley's second book
                                 with a major university press. In 2012, Cambridge University Press published her book
                                 "The French Enlightenment and the Emergence of Modern Cynicism." "An Impossible Dream"
                                 presents a new model of racial integration based on the concept of mutual transformation.
                                 The book's placement with Oxford University Press is a tremendous recognition of Dr.
                                 Stanley's stature within the scholarly community.
                              
                              
                              Dr. Dursun Peksen ’s paper (co-authored with our former colleague Rob Blanton) “Economic Liberalization,
                                 Market Institutions, and Labor Rights,” has been accepted for publication at the European
                                 Journal of Political Research. EJPR is a highly ranked, peer reviewed journal published
                                 by the European Consortium for Political Research.
                              
                              
                              Alumni News: Drew Wagstaff , M.A. '13, has been selected as the recipient of the 2015 Stuart A. Bremer Award
                                 for the best graduate student paper given at this year’s Peace Science Society meeting
                                 for his paper “Disinformation and Misinformation: Organizational Self-Assessment in
                                 the Military.” The award carries with it a $2000 travel support to attend the 2016
                                 meeting of the Network of European Peace Scientists. Drew is currently a Ph.D. candidate
                                 in Political Science at Emory University.
                              
                              
                              Dr. Dursun Peksen 's paper “The Impact of ILO Conventions on Worker Rights: Are Empty Promises Worse
                                 Than No Promises?” - co-authored with our former colleague Robert Blanton – has been
                                 accepted for publication in the Review of International Organizations. ROIO is a highly
                                 ranked, peer reviewed journal that publishes articles on international governmental
                                 and non-governmental organizations. Congratulations, Dr. Peksen!
                              
                              
                              Dr. Nicole Detraz and Dr. Eric Groenendyk have both been awarded a Professional Development Assignment (PDA) for one semester
                                 during 2016/17. Dr. Detraz will take her PDA in the fall of 2016 to work on her fourth
                                 book “Agents, Victims, Saviors: Gender and Climate Change Debates.” Dr. Groenendyk
                                 will take his PDA in the spring of 2017 to work on his project “Motivation in Politics:
                                 An Investigation into the Conditionality of Political Bias."
                              
                              
                              Our Department was well represented at the International Studies Association Midwest
                                 Meeting in St.Louis. Dr. Dursun Peksen served as the Program Chair for the 2015 convention. He and Dr. Nicole Detraz presented a co-authored paper, and both served as discussants, chairs and panelists
                                 on numerous other panels. Dr. Leah Windsor presented three papers and served as a discussant. Three of our graduate students,
                                 Anna Talley, Brooke Shannon , and Mai Orsino - shown here in our picture - presented their research as well and helped Dr. Peksen
                                 with the organization of the conference.
                              
                              
                              Dr. Michael Armour's article "The Chinese Maritime Militia; A Perfect Swarm?" will be published in the
                                 Journal of Defence Studies, (India) Vol. 10, No. 3, July-September 2016, pp.21-39.
                              
                              
                              Dr. Nicole Detraz has received a College of Arts and Sciences Travel Enrichment Grant. The grant will
                                 support research on her fourth book project "Agents, Victims, Saviors: Gender and
                                 Climate Change Debates." The focus of the project is on the multiple roles women have
                                 occupied in climate change discourses. During the fall, Dr. Detraz will travel to
                                 Europe to conduct interviews with women, who are members of environmental organizations
                                 working on climate change issues.
                              
                              
                              Dr. Matthias Kaelberer's paper "From Bern to Rio: Soccer and National Identity Discourses in Germany" has
                                 been accepted for publication at the International Journal of Politics, Culture and
                                 Society. IJPCS is a peer-reviewed interdisciplinary journal dedicated to the publication
                                 of articles on issues arising at the intersection of nations, states and civil societies.
                              
                              
                              Dr. Matthias Kaelberer's paper "Wal-Mart Goes to Germany: Culture, Institutions and the Limits of Globalization"
                                 has been accepted for publication at German Politics and Society. German Politics
                                 and Society is a peer-reviewed journal published by the Center for German and European
                                 Studies at Georgetown University.
                              
                              
                              Dr. Eric Groenendyk's paper (co-authored wth Yanna Krupnikov) "What Motivates Reasoning? A Goal-Oriented
                                 Theory of Political Evaluation" has been selected as the best paper in political psychology
                                 presented at the last APSA meeting by the Political Psychology section of the American
                                 Political Science Association Political Psychology section. An extremely prestigious
                                 award for Eric.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        Department of Psychology
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              Helen Sable has received the W. Russell Smith Award for Teaching Excellence. The selection of
                                 a recipient for this award is based primarily on nominations by graduating seniors
                                 and is the College's highest honor for teaching excellence. Helen serves as director
                                 of the Psychology Undergraduate Program and is chair of the Psychology Undergraduate
                                 Advisory Committee. She is a member of the College of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate
                                 Curriculum Committee and University Undergraduate Council. In 2012 Helen was selected
                                 as a recipient of the department's Lupfer Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching Award.
                              
                              
                              The Federation of Associations in Behavioral and Brain Sciences (FABBS) has recognized
                                 Art Graesser in their "In Honor Of . . ." program. The program acknowledges eminent, senior scientists
                                 who have made important and lasting contributions to the sciences of mind, brain and
                                 behavior. Congrats, Art!
                              
                              
                              Moongee Jeon (Ph.D., 2008) and Art Graesser were co-authors of an article that was
                                 selected as one of two best papers published in the Journal of Language and Social
                                 Psychology over a two-year period. The two papers were chosen by the International
                                 Association of Language and Social Psychology. The awards were presented at the International
                                 Conference on Language and Social Psychology in Bangkok, Thailand, in June.
                              
                              
                              Moongee Jeon (Ph.D., 2008) and Art Graesser were co-authors of an article that was
                                 selected as one of two best papers published in the Journal of Language and Social
                                 Psychology over a two-year period. The two papers were chosen by the International
                                 Association of Language and Social Psychology. The awards were presented at the International
                                 Conference on Language and Social Psychology in Bangkok, Thailand, in June.
                              
                              
                              The Child Clinical program has been accepted for membership in Clinical Child and
                                 Pediatric Psychology Training Council. The purpose of CCaPPTC is to promote the advancement
                                 of graduate and postgraduate education and training within the fields of clinical
                                 child and adolescent psychology as well as pediatric psychology.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Department of Social Work
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              Dr. Susan Neely-Barnes, professor and MSW program coordinator in the Department of
                                 Social Work, has been recognized as a Council on Social Work Education Leadership
                                 Scholar. The Leadership Scholars Program is designed to prepare future leaders in
                                 social work education by providing them with targeted education, training and mentorship.
                                 Neely-Barnes used her scholarship funds to attend the Higher Education Resources Services
                                 (HERS) Bryn Mawr Institute July 9-22. She joined a cohort of 64 women from across
                                 disciplines and higher education institutions for an opportunity to strengthen leadership
                                 skills and learn about leadership challenges in higher education. Neely-Barnes will
                                 be recognized by CSWE at its annual program meeting in Atlanta in November.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Department of Sociology
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              Gretchen Peterson is our new chair. She joins us from California State University Los Angeles. Stay
                                 tuned for an open house and meet and greet with the new chair.
                              
                              
                              Dr. Graves Enck and Ms. Kendra Murphy having Summer fun in the Sociology Department
                                 (photo to right)
                              
                              
                              The good news keeps on coming: Dr. Wes James just had his paper "Long Term Trends in Black and White Mortality in the Rural United
                                 States: Evidence of a Race-Specific Rural Mortality Penalty" published in the Journal
                                 of Rural Health!!
                              
                              
                              More good news all: Our very own Dr. Joseph Lariscy had his co-authored paper "Hispanic White Differences in Lifespan Variability in
                                 the United States" published in Demography! Way to Go!
                              
                              
                              Congratulations to our own Dr. Seth Abrutyn , whose co-authored paper (w/ Dr. Jonathan Turner ) "Selection as an Under-theorized Sociocultural Dynamic: Reconsidering
                              
                              
                              Exciting news! Dr. Seth Abrutyn's edited Handbook of Contemporary Sociological Theory
                                 is officially out electronically and in print! Check it out! Very cool!
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              The Brightest of CAS
                              UofM CAS is where you will find the best and brightest students and Alumni. Visit
                                 the Brightest pages to learn more about your fellow students and highlighted Alumni!
                              
                           
                           
                              Faculty Accolades
                              Learn more about the exciting research, engaged scholarship and world-class faculty
                                 in the College of Arts and Sciences.
                              
                           
                           
                              College of Arts and Sciences
                              E-Files is the online news source for the College of Arts and Sciences. Visit the
                                 college website for more information on programs and degrees.
                              
                           
                           
                              Department News
                              Find out about fascinating research, upcoming events, speaker presentations, awards
                                 and more. Check out the list of Department Newsletters, Social Media and Blogs from
                                 the College of Arts & Sciences. 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/21/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/efiles/kudos/index.php
