http://www.memphis.edu/efiles/brightest/index.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Arts & Sciences E-Files Newsletter
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Headlines
                        Announcements
                        Faculty Focus
                        College Events
                        Department Seminars
                     
                     
                        
                           CAS Brightest
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Students
                                 Alumni
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	E-Files
                              	
                        
                           	CAS Brightest
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     
                     The Brightest Students on Campus!
                     
                     The College of Arts and Science is proud to be the home of so many bright and promising
                        students. Keep reading for more detailed information about superstar students, award-winners,
                        and other exciting goings on within the student body at UofM College of Arts and Sciences. 
                     
                     
                     Teaching Assistant Program in France
                     
                     Congratulations to U of M students Jordan Bacon and Camille Maynard who were accepted into the 2016-17 Teaching Assistant Program in France. For more
                        information about the Teaching Assistant in France program, please visit this page .
                     
                     
                     CAS Honors Students On Their Way To National Conference
                     
                     Five College of Arts and Sciences honors students will present their research projects
                        at the National Conference for Undergraduate Research (NCUR), held in April at the
                        University of North Carolina Asheville: Abigail Gardiner , Seth Hardin , Justin Price , Hunter Rhodes , and Anqi Wang . Click here to learn more about these NCUR projects and the students who presented them. 
                     
                     
                     Department of Anthropology
                     
                     Colleen McCartney wins TAM Emerging Museum Professional of the Year award
                     
                     Colleen McCartney , M.A. Candidate in Anthropology and Interdisciplinary Graduate Certificate in Museum
                        Studies, is expected to graduate this spring. The Emerging Museum Professional of
                        the Year award for the Tennessee Association of Museums is a new award that "recognizes
                        exceptional promise and potential for emerging professionals in the museum field"
                        for having "demonstrated excellence and leadership in museum activities as his/her
                        institution, as well as for the museum profession as a whole."
                     
                     
                     The award is restricted to individuals working in the field for five years or less.
                        Colleen’s time at the C.H. Nash Museum  as a Graduate Assistant helped to qualify her for the award.This new award is a particular
                        honor given Ms. McCartney is still working towards her degree. 
                     
                     
                     Department of Biological Sciences
                     
                     PhD students successfully defend dissertations, earn "Dr." title
                     
                     Congratulations to Blake C. Jones who successfully defended his doctoral dissertation entitled "The effect of predatory
                        encounters on HPA axis responsiveness and memory of avian prey" on Friday April 1st.
                        Dr. Jones performed his dissertation work in the laboratory of Dr. Stephan Schoech. Congratulations are also in order for Dr. Sara Bebus, who successfully defended her dissertation. The work presented in Dr. Bebus' dissertation
                        entitled "Individual differences in neophobia: relationships with stress-physiology,
                        experience, and learning" was also conducted in the laboratory of Dr. Stephan Schoech . Click here to learn more about the Schoech Lab .
                     
                     
                     Students receive recognition and fellowships for research
                     
                     Congratulations are also in order for Adam Ramsey whose NSF Graduate Fellowship Application entitled "Paternal leakage, heteroplasmy
                        and fitness in carrot: implications for organellar genome evolution and gynodioecy"
                        earned him an Honorable Mention. This gives him enhanced access to XSEDE cyberinfrastructure
                        resources, including supercomputing time, in support of research toward completion
                        of the graduate program of study. Adam is doing his research with Dr. Jennifer Mandel . We also wish to congratulate  Malle Carrasco-Harris on her receipt of a Graduate Research Fellowship from the National Science Foundation.
                        Malle's proposal entitled "The Effects of Habitat Urbanization and Isolation on a
                        Top Predator" is being performed under the direction of Dr. Steve Reichling of the
                        Memphis Zoo and in collaboration with faculty in the Department of Biological Sciences.
                        Way to go Malle! 
                     
                     
                     Department of Computer Sciences
                     
                     Best Paper Award at VL/HCC 2016
                     
                     2016-09-09 PhD student Austin Henley (far right photo) and Prof. Scott Fleming (left photo) won the Best Paper Award at VL/HCC 2016 . The paper, entitled "Yestercode: Improving Code-Change Support in Visual Dataflow
                        Programming Environments," is based on work supported by National Instruments and
                        conducted on-site there.  Austin also won the Best Presentation Award at the Spring
                        2016 CS Research Day for his talk about this work. Read More
                     
                     The Department wishes to congratulate the many graduate and students who participated
                        in the 12th Annual Computer Science Research Day. The event was a great success and
                        although many presentations were recognized for excellence, the faculty judges were
                        very impressed with the efforts of each and every participant! Read a full list of
                        Research Day winners here .
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Undergraduate student Herve Aniglo (pictured) won the Association for Management Information Systems (AMIS) 1st Annual
                        techUP! Competition, held on April 9 at the U of M's Fogelman College of Business
                        and Economics. Read more about Herve's success and the AMIS techUP! Competition here . 
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Department of English
                     
                     Many Students Honored at English Awards Day 2016
                     
                     
                     The Department of English is extremely proud the many bright, outstanding, and inquisitive
                        graduate and undergraduate students who received special recognition as part of the
                        2016 English Awards Day ceremonies. In addition to numerous concentration-wide distinctions,
                        students were also honored for winning entries of several departmental competitions,
                        such as Carter Wenger , winner of the Joseph and June Riley Essay Contest (Mr. Wenger is pictured at right,
                        with Dr. Cervone). Additional photos and a detailed list of students recognized at
                        English Awards Day can be found here or at the department's website .
                     
                     
                     Short Story by MFA Fiction Student Published in UofM Magazine
                     
                     Congratulations are also in order for Fiction MFA student Anthony Larry , on the publication of his short story, "I Heard Her at the Dollar Store" in the
                        Spring 2016 edition of UofM Magazine.  You can read his story in hard copies of the magazine or check it out on page 36 of
                        the magazine's online version here . 
                     
                     
                     Department of foreign languages and literature
                     
                     Congratulations to Julianne Brooks , graduating senior with a concentration in French (also a double major in International
                        Studies) for receiving the College of Arts and Sciences Dean's Award for Outstanding
                        Undergraduate Student! Julianne will be pursuing her M.A. in French at the University
                        of Illinois-Chicago in the fall.
                     
                     
                     Congratulations to the following recipients of the Benjamin A. Gilman Scholarship
                        for Study Abroad for the Fall 2016/Academic Year 2016-2017:  Chesney Borden (Japan), Miaya Johnson (Japan), Leashandra Wiggins (Japan), and Branch
                           Yarbro (Japan)
                     
                      A detailed listing of Summer 2016 student recipients of Gilman Scholarships can be
                        found on this page, and more information about the Gilman scholarship program is located here .
                     
                     
                     Department of History
                     
                     Some of you might know Will Ruffin, he's a senior history major on campus and will be graduating in May 2017. The University
                        posted the picture to the right on their Facebook. :-) Congrats Will! Click here or image for larger view.
                     
                     
                     Conference Funding Announcements
                     
                     The Graduate Awards Committee announced the recipients of Spring and Summer 2016 research
                        and conference funding:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           Hafife Montgomery : Research in Germany
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        
                           
                           Matthew Isaacs : Research in New York
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        
                           
                           Kyra Clapper : Conference presentation in Seattle
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     We're on Instagram! You can follow us at "uofmhistory" although I've not posted any
                        photos at this time, so it won't be very interesting yet. If anyone would like to
                        be a contributor to our instagram account please email aksavage@memphis.edu. If you're interested in following the Student History Society's instagram adventures
                        you can follow them at "studenthistorysociety"--we will have a number of student contributors
                        this year, it should be entertaining.
                     
                     
                     Department of Mathematics
                     
                     The Department is very proud of Yury Sokolov and the hard work he put into his dissertation, defended in the Spring 2016, which
                        has won the Morton Dissertation Award . Congratulations are also in order for Ali Dogan, who is a recipient of the Graduate Assistant Meritorious Teaching Award for the academic year 2015/2016.
                     
                     
                     Department of Philosophy
                     
                     Congratulations to our newest PhD, Dr. Corey L. Barnes. Corey successfully defended his dissertation, "Un-Lockeing the Beauty which Prejudice
                        has Overlaid: On Alain Locke's Philosophical Anthropology, Value Theory, and the Movement
                        Towards Cosmopolitanism." ‪#‎memphisphilosophy‬
                     
                     
                     Hearty congratulations to our latest two PhDs!
                     
                     Stefano Vincini successfully defended his dissertation, "Developmental Phenomenology: Epistemic Grounding,
                        Infant Imitation, and Pairing" and  Marygrace Hemme successfully defended her dissertation, "Time and Narrative as Subjects-in-process
                        through Julia Kristeva's Feminine Genius"
                     
                     
                     Department of Physics
                     
                     Dr. Naseeb Shaheen Scholarship Awarded to Physics and Biology Major
                     
                     
                     Dr. Naseeb Shaheen Scholarship Awarded to Physics and Biology Major: Martina Rodriguez Sala , Physics and Biology major, is the recipient of the 2016 Dr. Naseeb Shaheen Scholarship
                        and is currently working on her research in Experimental Materials Physics under the
                        supervision of Dr F Sabri. She is also the recipient of an Helen Hardin Honors Summer
                        Research Fellowship. Congratulations Martina for receiving this award! This scholarship
                        is awarded to students majoring in Chemistry, Physics, Mathematics, or Geography who
                        plan to become high school teachers in one or more of these subjects.
                     
                     
                     The department of Psychology
                     
                     Congratulations to Isaac Woods , who has been named the William H. Ballard School Psychology Doctoral Student of
                        the Year by the Tennessee Association of School Psychologists. 
                     
                     
                     The award includes a plaque and cash reward, which will be presented to him at the
                        Mid-South Conference for Psychology in the Schools October 25. (photo to right)
                     
                     
                     Undergraduates Lacy Jamison and Jamie Padden had their honors/senior thesis projects published in the current issue of the new
                        UofM undergraduate journal QuaesitUM . 
                     
                     
                     Undergraduate psychology student Valisa Harris was selected by the Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies (ABCT) as
                        winner of this year's Women's SIG Student Poster Exposition Award. Her poster is titled
                        "Attribution of Blame for Domestic Abuse: Does the Victim's Response and Form of Abuse
                        Matter?" and is based on her thesis. Dr. Gayle Beck , chair of excellence in psychology, is the adviser for Harris' undergraduate thesis.
                        Harris will receive a certificate at the ABCT conference in New York City in October.
                     
                     
                     Preeti Rao received the C. J. Rosecrans Award for the outstanding clinical intern in the state of Alabama. She just completed a
                        clinical internship at the University of Alabama at Birmingham and will graduate from
                        the UofM this month. Congratulations, Preeti!
                     
                     
                     Rory Pfund , Clinical graduate student, was a co-author of an article titled "Undergraduate Study
                        in Psychology: Curriculum and Assessment" published in American Psychologist, Volume
                        71, Issue 2.
                     
                     
                     Graduate Student Mollie Anderson was one of two recipients (selected out of more than 250 graduate students who teach
                        courses at the UofM) of the Graduate Assistant Meritorious Teaching Award . Also, Mollie was awarded the 2016 Henry David Research Grant by the American Psychological Foundation. The grant will help support her current
                        research. Congratulations, Mollie!
                     
                     
                     
                           
                              
                                 
                                       
                              
                           Lidia Meshesha , Clinical doctoral student, and Jim Murphy discuss the NIH grant she received to provide support for her dissertation study
                        in a community alcohol treatment center and to further her training as an addiction
                        researcher. "A The University of Memphis: Behavioral Economic Supplement for Alcohol
                        Use Disorder Treatment"
                     
                     
                     Department of Social Work
                     
                     The Tennessee Chapter of the National Association of Social Workers (NASW) rcently
                        honored three Memphians for their significant accomplishments in improving the lives
                        of others. The individuals recognized were June Averyt , Roxanne Lemmon and Stephen Bush (click here to read more about 2016 NASW honors)...  
                     
                     
                     Department of Sociology
                     
                     Congratulations to our master's student, ReKeycha Harris , who successfully defended her thesis proposal this morning!! Exciting work on why
                        African Americans tithe and/or give to their respective churches!! Excellent job!
                     
                     
                     The Department of Sociology is very proud of its three graduating masters' students
                        of Spring 2016: Taylor Binnix , Rickeyta Mallet , and Anna Hugues , pictured at right during graduation ceremonies along with Drs. Wanda Rushing and
                        Wesley James. Click here or image for larger view.
                     
                     
                     Don't forget to check out the department's blog to read more about distinguished student Rickyta Mallett ! 
                     
                     
                     The department congratulates Beth Coules and Brandi Hunsucker for winning The Jerry Michel Outstanding Senior Award as two outstanding seniors
                        for the 2015-2016 academic year.
                     
                     
                     Visit the department's Facebook page for more success stories!
                     
                     
                     the college of arts and sciences
                     
                     CAS Students Honored at 2016 Student Research Forum
                     
                     The following list is comprised of CAS students; to see a list of campus wide winners
                        and pictures, please view the album on the Graduate School facebook page .
                     
                     
                     Education
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           2nd: Kenneth Barideaux Jr , Department of Psychology
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Liberal and Fine Arts
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           2nd: Kevin Ryan , Department of Philosophy
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Math and Computer Sciences
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           1st: Ali Dogan , Department of Mathematics
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        
                           
                           2nd: Abhijit Nag , Department of Computer Science
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Physical and Applied Sciences
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           1st: Seyed Mostafa Mousavi , Department of Earth Sciences
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Social and Behavioral Science
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           1st: Breya Walker , Department of Psychology
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        
                           
                           2nd: Lisa Mintz , Department of Psychology
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        CAS Brightest
                        
                           
                              
                              Students
                              Alumni
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              The Brightest of CAS
                              UofM CAS is where you will find the best and brightest students and Alumni. Visit
                                 the Brightest pages to learn more about your fellow students and highlighted Alumni!
                              
                           
                           
                              Faculty Accolades
                              Learn more about the exciting research, engaged scholarship and world-class faculty
                                 in the College of Arts and Sciences.
                              
                           
                           
                              College of Arts and Sciences
                              E-Files is the online news source for the College of Arts and Sciences. Visit the
                                 college website for more information on programs and degrees.
                              
                           
                           
                              Department News
                              Find out about fascinating research, upcoming events, speaker presentations, awards
                                 and more. Check out the list of Department Newsletters, Social Media and Blogs from
                                 the College of Arts & Sciences. 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/19/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/efiles/brightest/index.php
