http://www.memphis.edu/cas/photos.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			College of Arts & Sciences
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Departments
                        Research
                        Scholarships
                        Students
                        Resources
                        News
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	CAS
                              	
                        Dean's Office Contacts
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Dean's Office Staff and Administrators
                     
                     A & S Dean's Staff Contact Information
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                               Leila Boyd - Administrative Secretary, Interdisciplinary Studies
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              no photo available
                              
                              The Administrative Secretary's primary responsibility is organization and coordination
                                 of the Governor's School for International Studies, a four-week residential outreach
                                 program for high school juniors and seniors. She also works closely with the Marcus
                                 W. Orr Center for the Humanities, and other programs within Interdisciplinary Studies.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               Jessica Clifford-Kelso - Pre-professional Advisor
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                              The Pre-professional Advisor has responsibility for advising students interested in
                                 careers in the health sciences and law and for assisting these students with their
                                 application to professional school. The Pre-professional Advisor is responsible for
                                 creating and maintaining programs and services that provide pre-professional students
                                 with in-depth information about professional school admissions requirements and an
                                 opportunity to interact with professional school admissions officials and practicing
                                 professionals.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               Carolyn Dickens - Director of Development
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                              The Director of Development provides guidance to the Dean regarding opportunities
                                 that enhance and grow the financial resources of the College. Working closely with
                                 the Dean and his Advisory Board, the Director focuses on providing College alumni
                                 and friends with the opportunity to connect with and support the College, its students,
                                 and its faculty through establishing scholarships, assistantships, and community partnerships.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               Cassandra Dinwiddie - Business Officer
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                              The business officer has responsibility for administering the College's financial
                                 affairs including developing and establishing budgetary processes for the College,
                                 preparing major operational and special budgets, and managing its expenditures. She
                                 is also the Dean's official designee in authorizing financial transactions on behalf
                                 of the College.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               Susan Fitzgerald- Director of Administration
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                              The Director of Administration has responsibility for acting for and on behalf of
                                 the Dean serving as a liaison to the department chairs, division directors, administrative
                                 personnel, Board of Advisors members, students, etc. She also oversees College faculty
                                 and staff recruitment, and provides the Dean with information about pertinent laws,
                                 regulations and rules. She coordinates the College's Tenure and Promotion process
                                 each year and conducts special research projects for the Dean.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               Ms. Sharon Harber - Aministrative Assistant I
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                              The Secretary provides support services for the Associate Dean for Graduate Studies
                                 and Research. 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              Ms. Latica Jones  - Business Officer III
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               
                              
                              The Business Officer has responsibility for administering all issues related to Research
                                 Administration and University of Memphis Foundation accounts including, Proposal Summary
                                 forms, Advance Account forms, Incentive Pay, Foundation Reimbursement forms and training.
                                 Responsibilities includes managing budgets for the CAS Travel Enrichment and College
                                 Professorships. She is also the Dean's official designee in authorizing financial
                                 transactions on behalf of the College.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              Ms. Mary Jones - Lead Graduation Analyst
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                              The Lead Graduation Analyst is assigned to the Undergraduate Advising Center and has
                                 responsibility for certifying undergraduate students for graduation.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               Ms. Patsy Krech - College Advisor
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                              The College Advisor serves as director of Undergraduate Student Services and has the
                                 responsibility for overseeing undergraduate advising, recruitment, and graduation
                                 efforts. Each department in the college has specified advisors for their undergraduate
                                 majors, and the director provides training, resources, and assessment of the advising
                                 of each area. The director works with the graduation analysts to provide information
                                 to students and advisors in preparation for and certification of graduation.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               Roger J Kreuz - Associate Dean
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                              The Associate Deans in the College of Arts and Sciences assist the Dean with all matters
                                 pertaining to the administration of the College, and serve in an advisory capacity
                                 to the Dean. The Associate Deans work directly with the Dean on matters pertaining
                                 to recruitment, hiring, budget development and resource allocation, program and curriculum
                                 development, and other issues related to the administration of the College of Arts
                                 and Sciences. Associate Dean Kreuz serves as the Dean's liaison to the social science
                                 departments in the College of Arts and Sciences, as well as to those interdisciplinary
                                 programs that are oriented toward the social sciences. He oversees the Governor's
                                 School and the International Studies program. He also chairs the College's Graduate
                                 Curriculum Committee, and serves as the College representative on the University Graduate
                                 Council.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               Robert Marczynski - Assistant Director of Interdisciplinary Studies
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                              The Assistant Director is involved in a variety of programs and initiatives in the
                                 interdisciplinary academic programs and institutes. Academic programs supported are:
                                 African and African American Studies, Asian Studies and International Trade, Bioinformatics,
                                 International Studies, Bornblum Judaic Studies, Public Health, Women's and Gender
                                 Studies and Governor's School for International Studies. Research Centers supported
                                 are: Center for Research on Women, Chucalissa Indian Village and Museum, Confucius
                                 Institute, Benjamin Hooks Institute for Social Change, and the Marcus W. Orr Center
                                 for the Humanities.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               Dr. Thomas J. Nenon - Dean
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                              The Dean has responsibility for administering the College of Arts and Sciences including
                                 the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy and the Departments of Anthropology,
                                 Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Computer Science, Criminology and Criminal Justice,
                                 Earth Sciences, English, Foreign Languages and Literatures, History, Mathematical
                                 Sciences, Philosophy, Physics, Political Science, Psychology, and Sociology. He also
                                 has responsibility for administering the Center for Earthquake Research (CERI), the
                                 Center for Research on Women (CROW), and the Marcus Orr Center for the Humanities
                                 (MOCH), and for administration of the University's Air Force, Army, and Navy ROTC
                                 Programs.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               Sylvia Nisar - Graduation Analyst
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                              The Graduation Analyst is assigned to the Undergraduate Advising Center and has responsibility
                                 for certifying undergraduate students for graduation.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               Abby Parrill-Baker - Associate Dean
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 The Associate Deans in the College of Arts and Sciences assist the Dean with all matters
                                    pertaining to the administration of the College, and serve in an advisory capacity
                                    to the Dean.  The Associate Deans work directly with the Dean on matters pertaining
                                    to recruitment, hiring, budget development and resource allocation, program and curriculum
                                    development, and other issues related to the administration of the College of Arts
                                    and Sciences.  Associate Dean Parrill serves as the Dean's liaison to the Natural
                                    Sciences Departments in the College of Arts and Sciences, as well as to those interdisciplinary
                                    programs that are oriented toward the natural sciences.  She also supports faculty
                                    across the college in their efforts to obtain external funding for their research
                                    and scholarship, and promotes the growth of research and student involvement in research
                                    at all levels.
                                 
                                 
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               Deborah Tollefsen - Associate Dean
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                              
                              The Associate Deans in the College of Arts and Sciences assist the Dean with all matters
                                 pertaining to the administration of the College, and serve in an advisory capacity
                                 to the Dean. The Associate Deans work directly with the Dean on matters pertaining
                                 to recruitment, hiring, budget development and resource allocation, program and curriculum
                                 development, and other issues related to the administration of the College of Arts
                                 and Sciences. Associate Dean Tollefsen serves as the Dean's liaison to the Humanities
                                 Departments in the College of Arts and Sciences, as well as to those interdisciplinary
                                 programs that are humanities oriented. She also does enrollment management for the
                                 College of Arts and Sciences, oversees the allocation of several college-level awards
                                 and student scholarships in the College of Arts and Sciences, chairs the CAS Undergraduate
                                 Curriculum Committee, and serves as the College of Arts and Sciences representative
                                 to the University Undergraduate Council.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                               Ms. Debra Turner - Web Specialist II
                              
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                              
                              The Web Specialist II develops applications supporting the evaluations processes within
                                 the college, and designs and maintains the College of Arts and Sciences website and
                                 other sites within the college including several academic and research programs. Responsibilities
                                 also include design and publication of the college electronic bi-weekly newsletter,
                                 Efiles and the semi-annual newsletter PROFILES .
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     A & S Dean's Staff Contact Information
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply now for an Undergraduate Degree in the College of Arts & Sciences
                              Pursue your dream of having a degree, broaden your career choices and gain the confidence
                                 you need to succeed!
                              
                           
                           
                              The College offers Master's and Doctoral Degrees
                              Are you interested in a new profession? Would you like to enhance the knowledge and
                                 experience you already possess?  
                              
                           
                           
                              Community Engagement
                              We are committed to teaching and serving the Memphis and Mid-South community through
                                 our programs and events.
                              
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Dean's Office Contacts, Advising, Department Chairs...
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 8/19/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/cas/photos.php
