http://www.memphis.edu/cas/alumni/alum_dis_res_crea_ach.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   		
   	
   		
   
   
   		
   		
   
   
   	
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			College of Arts & Sciences
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Departments
                        Research
                        Scholarships
                        Students
                        Resources
                        News
                     
                     
                        
                           Alumni Resources
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Committees/Membership
                                       College of Arts and Sciences Alumni Association
                                       University of Memphis Alumni
                                       University of Memphis Alumni and Friends Self Service web site
                                    
                                 
                                 Dean's Advisory Board
                                 Awards
                                       
                                       Alumni Distinguished Research/Creative Achievement Award
                                       
                                       Distinguished Teaching Award
                                       
                                       Outstanding Alumni Award
                                       
                                       Outstanding Friend's Award
                                    
                                 
                                 UofM Alumni Association
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	CAS
                              	
                        
                              	Alumni 
                              	
                        Alumni Association Distinguished Research and Creative Achievement Award
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Alumni Association Distinguished Research and Creative Achievement Award
                     
                     The FRG Review Groups will use the following criteria in their evaluation of the nominations.
                        This set of criteria is deliberately broad, as it must encompass a wide spectrum of
                        potential candidates. All work to be evaluated must have been accomplished while the
                        nominee was in full-time employment at The University of Memphis. (Note that this
                        normally excludes publications resulting directly from the candidate's dissertation,
                        unless a part of the dissertation was completed while employed as a faculty member
                        at the University.) Evidence of continued effort and professional development is of
                        particular importance.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Nomination Statement
                        
                        Publications and Presentations
                        
                        Professional Works
                        
                        Research
                        
                        Professional Recognition
                        
                     
                     
                     Nomination Statement
                       Include a statement on the cover sheet (copy attached) placing the nominee's work
                     within the field and in the larger scheme of things. This statement can be written
                     by the nominee, by the person making the nomination, or by a prominent member of the
                     field. If the statement is solicited by the nominee, it should be clearly presented
                     as such. The nominee should also supply the names of five possible referees, to be
                     called upon if necessary.
                     
                     Publications and Presentations
                       The publications may be co-authored; however, it is desirable to distinguish senior
                     and junior authorship. Cite all authors in the order in which they appear in the publication;
                     star the names of student authors. Indicate the five most important scholarly works.
                     Editorships and reviews are excluded as these are taken into consideration under professional
                     recognition. Emphasis should be placed on publications that have been peer-reviewed
                     in national or international journals that are widely disseminated within their field.
                     In those fields where it is possible, evidence and impact in the field (such as recognition
                     as one of the most cited papers) is also important.
                     
                     Professional works
                     
                     
                        
                        Scholarly books (normally considered as primary sources of information by peers)
                        
                        Textbooks (normally considered as teaching aids and secondary sources by peers), lab
                           manuals, and related highly specific teaching aids
                        
                        
                        Paintings, sculpture, graphic design, interior design, novels, poetry, short stories,
                           novellas, musical compositions, plays, screenplays, choreography, etc.
                        
                        
                        Activities in performing arts, such as concerts, films, dance, theatrical presentations,
                           etc. at national and International venues.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Published articles in refereed international, national, and regional journals
                        
                        Monographs, symposia, and reports published by government agencies and professional
                           societies
                        
                        
                        Papers or abstracts of papers presented at international or national society meetings
                           with refereed selection
                        
                        
                        Papers of a unique nature, such as guidebooks or papers resulting from field trips
                           or special symposia, etc.
                        
                        
                        Master classes conducted
                        
                     
                     
                     Research
                     
                     List each grant proposal submitted to an external funding source. Include the following
                        information for each proposal:*
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Agency
                        
                        Title
                        
                        All investigators on the proposal
                        
                        Role of candidate (PI, Co-PI, Co-1, Consultant, etc.)
                        
                        Duration
                        
                        Total Direct Costs*
                        
                        Total Costs (direct + indirect)*
                        
                        Outcome of Proposal: Funded, Not Funded, Pending
                        
                     
                     *The amount of funding available from external agencies to support work in the candidate's
                        discipline should be taken into account in evaluating these items.
                     
                     List Faculty Research Grant proposals submitted
                     
                     
                        
                        Title
                        
                        Year submitted
                        
                        Funded or not
                        
                     
                     
                     Graduate student mentoring
                     
                     
                        
                        Name
                        
                        Title of dissertation or thesis
                        
                        Degree and year awarded
                        
                     
                     
                     Professional Recognition
                     
                     Editorships
                     
                     
                        
                        National and international journals
                        
                        Regional journals
                        
                        Major monographs and symposia
                        
                        Encyclopedias
                        
                        Other
                        
                     
                     
                     Officerships
                     
                     
                        
                        Major office in national and international society
                        
                        Major office in regional society
                        
                        Minor office
                        
                        Professional committees, review boards, etc.
                        
                     
                     
                     Critical reviews of books, plays, performances, etc
                     
                     Juried Competitions
                     
                     
                        
                        Awards
                        
                        Service as a judge
                        
                     
                     
                     Additional Information (Published reviews of the nominee's work may be included.)CAS
                        procedures for selecting up to four (4) AADCA nominees).
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              
                              October: The chair of the College Council will send a memorandum to the College Faculty
                                 calling for nominations.
                              
                              
                              November: Last day for accepting nominations. The Chair of the College Council will
                                 notify each candidate of her/his nomination and request that the following information
                                 (with the exception of item 1) be sent to the College Council Chair's Office is in
                                 December.
                              
                              
                              A brief statement (no more than 600 words) describing in so far as possible in a manner
                                 understandable to those in other academic areas, the candidate's research or scholarly
                                 activity while at The University of Memphis. The announced deadline for this statement
                                 is in January.
                              
                              
                              A list of three people in the candidate's field who would be willing to evaluate her/his
                                 eligibility for the award in terms of the professional contribution of her/his work.
                                 Only one of these referees may be employed by The City of Memphis. The referees will
                                 be contacted by the Chair of the College Council. In order to allow time for response,
                                 the deadline for this list in December.
                              
                              
                              A current curriculum vitae. Deadline is in December.
                              
                              If the candidate wishes, she/he may also include a representative sample of her/his
                                 research and scholarly work, although she/he is not required to do this. (There is
                                 such a requirement at the University level of this process.)
                              
                              
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        At one of its fall meetings, the Council will select a three-member committee to review
                           the material submitted and make recommendations to the Council. The three-member committee
                           will include one council representative from each of the following: (I) Humanities;
                           English, Foreign Languages and Literatures, History, Philosophy; (II) Natural Sciences:
                           Biology, Chemistry, Geological Sciences, Mathematical Sciences, Microbiology, and
                           Molecular Cell Sciences, Physics; (III) Social Sciences: Anthropology, Criminology
                           and Criminal Justice, Geography and Planning, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology
                           and Social Work. Council members who are candidates for the award are ineligible to
                           serve on the committee.
                        
                        
                        January: The Council chair will make all submitted material available to the Committee.
                           The Council Chair will call the Committee together to provide appropriate instructions,
                           and the Committee will set a meeting to discuss the candidates.
                        
                        
                        February: The Committee will report to the Council, and the names and files of the
                           nominees from the College of Arts and Sciences as approved by the Council will be
                           transmitted to the Office of the Vice Provost for Research by the Council chair.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     For additional information related to this award, see information provided by the
                        Office of the Vice Provost for Research. Also, see guidelines for the College of Arts
                        and Sciences Distinguished Research Award.
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Alumni Resources
                        
                           
                              
                              Committees/Membership
                                    College of Arts and Sciences Alumni Association
                                    University of Memphis Alumni
                                    University of Memphis Alumni and Friends Self Service web site
                                 
                              
                              Dean's Advisory Board
                              Awards
                                    
                                    Alumni Distinguished Research/Creative Achievement Award
                                    
                                    Distinguished Teaching Award
                                    
                                    Outstanding Alumni Award
                                    
                                    Outstanding Friend's Award
                                 
                              
                              UofM Alumni Association
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply now for an Undergraduate Degree in the College of Arts & Sciences
                              Pursue your dream of having a degree, broaden your career choices and gain the confidence
                                 you need to succeed!
                              
                           
                           
                              The College offers Master's and Doctoral Degrees
                              Are you interested in a new profession? Would you like to enhance the knowledge and
                                 experience you already possess?  
                              
                           
                           
                              Community Engagement
                              We are committed to teaching and serving the Memphis and Mid-South community through
                                 our programs and events.
                              
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Dean's Office Contacts, Advising, Department Chairs...
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/9/15
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/cas/alumni/alum_dis_res_crea_ach.php
