http://www.memphis.edu/cas/professional-development/index.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			College of Arts & Sciences
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Departments
                        Research
                        Scholarships
                        Students
                        Resources
                        News
                     
                     
                        
                           Professional Development 
                           
                              
                                 
                                 About Professional Development
                                 Online Application
                                 2015-2016
                                 2014-2015
                                 2013-2014
                                 2012-2013
                                 2011-2012
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	CAS
                              	
                        
                           	PDA
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Professional Development Assignments
                     
                     Program Description
                     
                     (Program Description and Guideline details have changed, please review carefully)
                     
                     The Professional Development Assignment (PDA) Program at the University of Memphis
                        encourages faculty members to continue their professional growth as scholars and teachers.
                        In the College of Arts and Sciences over 400 PDAs have been awarded since 1977-78.
                     
                     
                     Faculty members may apply for a PDA for one semester, at full pay, or for one academic
                        year, at half pay. Faculty being approved for a full academic year PDA cannot change
                        to a semester after the approval has been granted.
                     
                     
                     A comprehensive list of recent PDA recipients can be found in the index on the left-hand
                        side of this webpage. 
                     
                     
                     Guidelines For Professional Development Assignments Program
                     
                     Faculty members interested in obtaining a Professional Development Assignment apply
                        early in the fall semester of the year prior to the anticipated Assignment:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        All tenure-track faculty members are eligible to submit proposals for Professional
                           Development Assignments. Untenured faculty members are encouraged to apply only after
                           they have completed the third year review.
                        
                        Faculty members submit an electronic proposal with details of their development plan.
                        
                        Proposals should include a relatively brief but specific plan (one to three pages)
                           for the work that the faculty member intends to complete during the Assignment period.
                           This plan should include a statement about the expected benefit to the faculty member,
                           the College, and the University.
                        
                        Current curriculum vitae must accompany the proposal.
                        
                        An application form must be completed and submitted electronically.
                        
                        An endorsement email must be submitted by the Chair or Director which should include
                           a list of courses that will need coverage and the faculty level needed.
                        
                        Faculty members are encouraged to seek additional, non-University support for the
                           period of their leave, and attempts to obtain funds should be described in the proposal
                        
                        Faculty members anticipating financial support from external funding during their
                           PDA leave should discuss this with their chair or director prior to submitting a proposal
                           and include this information in the proposal. This would include support from another
                           institution (e.g., stipends, housing, a travel assistance, other benefits); from a
                           grant program that is administered through the University of Memphis (e.g., external
                           grants to support the research while on PDA); or from a grant program that is not
                           administered through the University of Memphis but where support will be provided
                           (e.g., stipend, travel assistance, housing, other benefits).
                        
                        A faculty member on a full year PDA with sufficient external grant support can draw
                           up to 50% of available funds from the grant that, in turn, can be applied toward their
                           salary. However, the faculty member must have prior approval to draw against external
                           grant funds at the time they sign their contract accepting the PDA. Incentive pay
                           cannot be drawn during a PDA period.
                        
                        A faculty member who is awarded a Professional Development Assignment must agree to
                           remain at the University of Memphis for at least one full academic year after the
                           assignment is completed.
                        
                        Within three months after the end of the leave period, the faculty member must submit
                           a report to the dean, describing the accomplishments and benefits of the leave.
                        
                        Faculty members who have had an Assignment approved under this program may apply again
                           after seven years have elapsed since approval of the prior leave. A faculty member
                           may apply after only five years from the approval of a prior award provided that he/she
                           proposes to spend a full year on the Assignment, at one-half pay.
                        
                        In such a case, the Dean may approve the proposal provided there are sufficient funds
                           in the one-half year of unused salary to cover the expense of part-time or full-time
                           instruction for the entire year.
                        
                     
                     
                     Priorities To Be Used By The Selection Committee
                     
                     
                        
                        First priority will be given to proposals that advance the faculty member's scholarship
                           and/or teaching and that show clear potential to enhance the faculty member's contributions
                           to the department or division, the College of Arts and Sciences, and the University.
                        
                        Priority will be given to proposals that clearly specify the plan for work during
                           the leave period.
                        
                        Priority will be given to faculty members who have not received a previous Assignment.
                           At the same time, those faculty members who have received an earlier Assignment are
                           encouraged to apply and those with strong proposals will be supported when possible.
                        
                        Priority will be given to tenured faculty members. For non-tenured faculty members,
                           priority will be given to faculty members who have completed their third year review.
                        
                     
                     
                     A & S Procedures For Professional Development Assignments Program
                     
                     
                        
                        A three-member Professional Development Assignment Committee of the College of Arts
                           and Sciences Council for Graduate Studies and Research, coordinated by the Associate
                           Dean overseeing the PDA program, reviews the proposals.
                        
                        The committee is made up of three College Council members who serve for a period of
                           two years and who represent the three disciplinary areas of the College (Humanities,
                           Social Sciences, and Natural Science and Mathematical Sciences). Typically one member
                           is elected by the College Council, one is selected by the Dean, and a third member
                           carries over from the previous year.
                        
                        Depending on continuity of College Council members, this typical plan can be modified,
                           but the intent is to balance the subcommittee between members selected by the dean
                           and members elected by the College Council and to ensure all three disciplinary areas
                           are represented.
                        
                        After each member has reviewed the proposals, the PDA Committee meets with the Associate
                           Dean overseeing the PDA program.
                        
                        Each committee member reports his/her decision as to whether the candidate (1) should
                           definitely be funded, (2) should be funded if budgetary considerations permit, or
                           (3) should not be funded even if there are sufficient funds.
                        
                        A supporting rationale is provided. If possible, the committee arrives at a consensus
                           about each candidate.
                        
                        Based upon the PDA Committee's recommendations, the Associate Dean overseeing the
                           PDA program contacts the Chair/Director of all applicants and develops a budget for
                           the cost of covering the courses of applicants who have been approved at either the
                           first or second categories.
                        
                        The costs of covering each faculty member's courses and the total cost of the program
                           are determined.
                        
                        The Associate Dean overseeing the PDA program discusses with the Dean and the Dean's
                           professional staff the substantive issues that emerged from the PDA Committee's review
                           regarding the merits of proposals and the financial feasibility of funding faculty
                           members who were ranked at the first and second categories.
                        
                        Based upon this information, a decision is made about whom to support for the upcoming
                           year.
                        
                        The Dean and Associate Dean overseeing the PDA program writes and delivers a letter
                           to each PDA applicant by the end of the fall semester, indicating whether or not a
                           Professional Development Assignment has been awarded. Copies of these letters are
                           delivered to the Chair/Director of the faculty member's department/division.
                        
                        Faculty members who are granted a PDA sign a contract and submit this signed memo
                           along with a one-paragraph description of the proposed work to Dr. Abby Parrill-Baker
                           in 107 Scates.
                        
                     
                     
                     Electronic PDA Application
                     
                     For older copies of Professional Development Assignments final reports, please contact
                        Dr. Abby Parrill-Baker .
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Professional Development 
                        
                           
                              
                              About Professional Development
                              Online Application
                              2015-2016
                              2014-2015
                              2013-2014
                              2012-2013
                              2011-2012
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply now for an Undergraduate Degree in the College of Arts & Sciences
                              Pursue your dream of having a degree, broaden your career choices and gain the confidence
                                 you need to succeed!
                              
                           
                           
                              The College offers Master's and Doctoral Degrees
                              Are you interested in a new profession? Would you like to enhance the knowledge and
                                 experience you already possess?  
                              
                           
                           
                              Community Engagement
                              We are committed to teaching and serving the Memphis and Mid-South community through
                                 our programs and events.
                              
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Dean's Office Contacts, Advising, Department Chairs...
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/cas/professional-development/index.php
