http://www.memphis.edu/cas/cas_chair_handbook/joint_appointments.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   		
   	
   		
   
   
   		
   		
   
   
   	
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			College of Arts & Sciences
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Departments
                        Research
                        Scholarships
                        Students
                        Resources
                        News
                     
                     
                        
                           CAS Chair Handbook
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Part I
                                       Preface
                                       Roles and Responsibilities
                                       Survival Strategies
                                       Departmental Culture & Chair Leadership Style
                                       Length of Term and Transition to a New Chair
                                    
                                 
                                 Part II
                                       Management Introduction
                                       Major Event Timeline
                                       Attendance Expectations & Absence Reporting
                                       Department Meetings
                                       Budget Responsibilities
                                          
                                          
                                             
                                             Understanding Your Budget
                                             
                                             Viewing Your Budgets in Self-Service Banner
                                             
                                             Monitoring Payrolls and Budgets in e~Print
                                             
                                          
                                          
                                       
                                       Staff Management
                                       Time and Leave
                                       Annual Evaluations (Faculty and Staff)
                                       Dealing with Complaints (Student, Faculty, and Staff)
                                       Development (Donor Relations)
                                    
                                 
                                 Part III
                                       
                                       Faculty Recruitment
                                       
                                       Joint Appointments
                                       
                                       Tenure & Promotion
                                       
                                       Teaching Load Guidelines
                                       
                                       Tenure Track Faculty
                                       
                                       Non-tenure Track Full-Time Faculty
                                       
                                       Tenured Faculty
                                       
                                       Part-Time Faculty
                                       
                                       Retirement and Post-Retirement
                                       
                                       Emeritus status for retired faculty members
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	CAS
                              	
                        
                              	CAS Chair Handbook
                              	
                        Joint Appointments
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Guidelines on Shared Faculty Appointments
                     
                     I. Principle and Values
                     
                     Although faculty members are conventionally appointed to a single academic unit in
                        the College of Arts and Sciences, various professional or programmatic reasons may
                        justify developing an arrangement that shares duties and responsibilities across multiple
                        units (departments, divisions, schools, centers, institutes, etc. ). When deviating
                        from traditional single-unit appointment practice, there is special need for clarity
                        about expectations to avoid misunderstandings and misinterpretations.
                     
                     
                     The guidelines below create an administrative structure and process that balances
                        the need for consistency with university policy while still allowing flexibility in
                        designing the terms and conditions of faculty appointments. Shared positions offer
                        the potential for fostering innovative work and creating new knowledge, attracting
                        and retaining high quality faculty, and emphasizing interconnections. The need for
                        a shared appointment occurs when there is a university/programmatic need driven by
                        research and teaching priorities. There are two categories, but four types, of faculty
                        appointments that warrant shared responsibility agreements:
                     
                     
                     Joint appointments that share/apportion regular instructional, research, or clinical
                        duties among multiple units:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           Tenure/tenure-track and research faculty appointments established upon hire, with
                              responsibilities among multiple units, e.g., Bioinformatics/Biology; CERI/Earth Sciences
                           
                            
                        
                        
                        
                           
                           Split appointments that apportion responsibilities of UofM faculty as they assume
                              new institutional duties, e.g., Director, Marcus Orr Center for Humanities/History
                           
                            
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           Associate appointments which remain in force only as long as participating parties
                              mutually wish to continue the agreement and with the understanding that level of involvement
                              is based on the individual's time and interests.
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           Adjunct Graduate Faculty appointments, e.g. , for faculty at St. Jude or University
                              of Tennessee Health Science Center
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        
                           
                           Collegial appointments, indication of promised involvement with a second unit but
                              the relationship is uniquely personal and reflects that individual's willingness to
                              invest in the secondary unit, e.g. , physics professor with a courtesy appointment
                              in chemistry.
                           
                            
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     When a joint appointment is created, a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) will be initiated
                        by the involved Dean(s) and coordinated with the heads of the units involved as well
                        as the involved faculty member. When an associate appointment is created, the chair
                        of the initiating department will draft a brief MOU with an approval line for the
                        Dean(s). Section III lists the various items that should be included in the MOU, as
                        applicable to the position.
                     
                     
                     II. Guidelines on Terms and Conditions of a Shared Appointment
                     
                     The establishment of a shared appointment reflects an alignment of the teaching, research,
                        and professional service interests of the faculty member with the mission and goals
                        of the units involved. Although the guidelines presented below cannot possibly cover
                        all contingencies, it is anticipated that formalizing the shared arrangement will
                        benefit all parties involved and reduce the potential for conflict or harm to the
                        participants. Academic Units: The units participating in the shared appointment will
                        be identified, with one designated as the administrative unit of record for the faculty
                        member and consequently will have the lead responsibility in personnel issues, payroll,
                        mail address, etc. Each unit should help the faculty member become part of its community,
                        including participation in unit meetings and events, receiving regular communications,
                        and involvement in tenure and promotion processes. Distribution of Work: The MOU will
                        explicitly outline the expected distribution of faculty duties and responsibilities
                        including:
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           the anticipated teaching load, clearly specifying how teaching assignments will be
                              made, the teaching load in each unit, and whether courses will come from an existing
                              pool of courses in each unit or new courses will be expected to be developed. Teaching
                              load expectations will be individualized to the overall responsibilities of the position;
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        
                           
                           service expectations for the position, especially given the risk of having a faculty
                              member burdened with a doubled service expectation, including department meetings,
                              department initiatives, student advising, assessment activities, etc.; and,
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        
                           
                           the agreed upon general definition of the field(s), types, and productivity levels
                              of scholarship anticipated (realizing that research agendas evolve over time). Overall,
                              the individual's research agenda should be relevant to both of the participating units
                              and external funding expectations should be made explicit. Appointment Process: At
                              the time of proposing a joint appointment, the Dean's Office(s) and involved academic
                              units will agree on an outline of the key procedures they will use to recruit, select,
                              evaluate, promote, and resolve disputes.
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     When proposing to hire a new faculty member for a joint appointment, the proposal
                        should describe the rationale for establishing a joint position, the nature and expectations
                        of the position, the academic units to be involved in the joint appointment, the composition
                        of the search committee, the recruitment plan/selection process, and the specific
                        qualifications sought.
                     
                     
                     Candidates will likely have substantive graduate course work or substantive experience
                        and/or publications in the respective area(s). The proposed terms of the joint appointment
                        will be discussed with all candidates at the time of their interview, with a written
                        draft of the memorandum of understanding provided to the candidates. When the joint
                        appointment is offered at the time of the faculty member's initial hire at The University
                        of Memphis, the specification of primary and secondary departments, budgetary allocation,
                        and workload distribution will be included in the President's letter of appointment
                        to the faculty member.
                     
                     
                     The memorandum of understanding will be finalized as part of the negotiation process.
                        When a split appointment is offered to a faculty member already employed at the UofM,
                        the memorandum of understanding serves as documentation of the expectations to and
                        from each participant. Period of shared appointment: The length of the appointment
                        should reflect the nature of the position. Evaluation, Promotion and Tenure: Prior
                        to the evaluation period, leaders of both units should be transparent about the assessment
                        procedures they will use and the evaluation criteria that will be applied. The evaluation
                        standards and criteria should take into account the unique features of the collaboration
                        as well as the differences between the involved units.
                     
                     
                     The format and deadlines for reporting annual or mid-tenure accomplishments should
                        be coordinated to avoid or minimize duplication of reporting effort. The assessments
                        will be based on the total performance, with both the home and sharing unit involved
                        in completing the evaluation; feedback provided to the faculty member will be detailed
                        and specific. For efficiency purposes, one unit will be responsible for initiating
                        the evaluation report. The sequence of the evaluation should be agreed to as part
                        of the MOU; the second unit will share the evaluation report with the initial unit
                        head to assure open and cross-communication among all stakeholders. The tenure and
                        promotion process for joint appointments will follow university policy and timelines.
                        The process followed will be specific to the responsibilities of the position. For
                        example, some interdisciplinary joint appointments may suit a unified process for
                        promotion and tenure as the clearest and simplest way to assure representation of
                        involved academic units. In these situations, the proportionate representation on
                        the internal committee from the participating units should be outlined in the MOU.
                        Other joint positions may require independent and sequential assessment processes,
                        with each unit's committees communicating with each other as to their findings. Separate
                        letters from each of the heads of the units will be provided to the College committee
                        (with an exchange of information between the unit heads).
                     
                     
                     Care will be taken in selecting external reviewers for tenure/promotion to identify
                        scholars capable of looking beyond a disciplinary-specific lens and who can understand
                        the whole picture of the faculty member's academic contribution. The solicitation
                        of external reviewers for tenure/promotion will proactively describe the nature of
                        the shared appointment and interdisciplinary work to be reviewed. When faculty members
                        have joint appointments in two or more colleges, deadlines for annual reviews, award
                        nominations, leaves, etc. may differ. Deans of colleges involved in joint appointments
                        should consult with each other and reach mutually acceptable agreements regarding
                        deadlines which will be communicated to the faculty member.
                     
                     
                     Change : As the role and responsibilities or interests of the faculty member evolve over
                        time, it is expected that the initial understandings guiding the agreement will change.
                        Difficulties with the joint appointment may also occur. Working with the Dean's Office(s),
                        modification of the terms of agreement will be required if there is modification of
                        work distribution, budgetary issues, substantial change in expectations, the faculty
                        member wishes to rescind his/her joint appointment status, or either academic unit
                        wishes to reconsider the agreement. Although rights to change the MOU should not be
                        assumed, the faculty member should be informed about what options are available. Mutual
                        agreement is needed on whom the faculty member should contact if he or she wishes
                        to renegotiate the terms and conditions of the joint agreement and whom to contact
                        if the faculty member wishes to terminate the agreement.
                     
                     
                     The Dean's Office(s) will clarify any constraints in place for changing a budgeted
                        shared appointment, especially when this involves an assistant professor wishing to
                        discontinue a joint appointment prior to tenure/promotion review. Conflict Resolution:
                        The faculty member should first express concerns to the home unit and work with the
                        lowest level possible to resolve issues. If the academic unit becomes concerned about
                        the individual's performance or conduct, administrators knowledgeable about the concerns
                        should consult with the Dean's Office(s). Consultation with the Dean's Office(s) will
                        also occur if there are serious inter-unit conflicts or if major programmatic changes
                        suggest needed modification of the arrangement. Assurance of the individual's due
                        processes is critical. Disciplinary action, if deemed necessary, must be recommended
                        jointly through appropriate channels.
                     
                     
                     III. Checklist of points to be covered in the Memorandum of Understanding, as applicable:
                     
                     
                        
                        Academic unit(s) and/or program(s) sharing the appointment, indicating which unit
                           serves as the faculty member's home administrative unit and tenure home.  
                        
                        
                        If a new hire, tenure status, e.g. , tenured, tenure-track, non tenure (if tenure
                           track, when tenure review will occur).  
                        
                        
                        Rank or title of the faculty member.  
                        
                        
                        Length of the Shared Appointment.  
                        
                        
                        Workload Division (teaching and service; research agenda).  
                        
                        
                        Understanding regarding:  
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                              membership on unit level committees, voting rights and involvement in graduate student
                                 admissions and advising; role in the unit's tenure and promotion procedures  
                              
                              
                              administrative support--office location, staff/secretarial help (faculty with joint
                                 appointments will generally have a single office in the primary unit)  
                              
                              
                              professional support, including mentoring, access to labs, equipment, IT support,
                                 graduate student support, and funds for professional development, travel and supplies;
                                 approval process for academic, research, and non-academic leaves including responsibilities
                                 for provision of adjunct replacement; and,  
                              
                              
                              allocation of overhead receipts on grants, start-up costs, relocation expenses, matching
                                 funds on grants, indirect cost sharing and buyout policy.  
                              
                              
                            
                        
                        
                        Review procedures (annual evaluations, re-appointments, salary increase recommendations,
                           tenure, and promotion). Process for modifying or terminating the shared appointment;
                           retreat rights and/or constraints to retreat rights. Signatures: The involved academic
                           unit leaders, Dean(s) and Provost all sign the memorandum of understanding. Copies
                           will be provided to the units and the faculty member.  
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     (Thursday, December 02, 2010)
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        CAS Chair Handbook
                        
                           
                              
                              Part I
                                    Preface
                                    Roles and Responsibilities
                                    Survival Strategies
                                    Departmental Culture & Chair Leadership Style
                                    Length of Term and Transition to a New Chair
                                 
                              
                              Part II
                                    Management Introduction
                                    Major Event Timeline
                                    Attendance Expectations & Absence Reporting
                                    Department Meetings
                                    Budget Responsibilities
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                          Understanding Your Budget
                                          
                                          Viewing Your Budgets in Self-Service Banner
                                          
                                          Monitoring Payrolls and Budgets in e~Print
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    Staff Management
                                    Time and Leave
                                    Annual Evaluations (Faculty and Staff)
                                    Dealing with Complaints (Student, Faculty, and Staff)
                                    Development (Donor Relations)
                                 
                              
                              Part III
                                    
                                    Faculty Recruitment
                                    
                                    Joint Appointments
                                    
                                    Tenure & Promotion
                                    
                                    Teaching Load Guidelines
                                    
                                    Tenure Track Faculty
                                    
                                    Non-tenure Track Full-Time Faculty
                                    
                                    Tenured Faculty
                                    
                                    Part-Time Faculty
                                    
                                    Retirement and Post-Retirement
                                    
                                    Emeritus status for retired faculty members
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply now for an Undergraduate Degree in the College of Arts & Sciences
                              Pursue your dream of having a degree, broaden your career choices and gain the confidence
                                 you need to succeed!
                              
                           
                           
                              The College offers Master's and Doctoral Degrees
                              Are you interested in a new profession? Would you like to enhance the knowledge and
                                 experience you already possess?  
                              
                           
                           
                              Community Engagement
                              We are committed to teaching and serving the Memphis and Mid-South community through
                                 our programs and events.
                              
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Dean's Office Contacts, Advising, Department Chairs...
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/9/15
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/cas/cas_chair_handbook/joint_appointments.php
