http://www.memphis.edu/finance/programs/msba_program.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Fogelman College - Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Welcome
                        Programs
                        Faculty & Staff
                        Research
                        News & Events
                        FCBE
                     
                     
                        
                           Programs
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Programs
                                       
                                       Degree Programs
                                       
                                       Undergraduate Finance Course Catalog
                                       
                                       Undergraduate Finance Course Descriptions
                                       
                                       Business Finance Concentration
                                       
                                       Real Estate Concentration
                                       
                                       Banking and Financial Services Concentration
                                       
                                       Professional Real Estate Certificate
                                       
                                       Financial Analyst Certificate
                                       
                                       Financial Planning Certificate
                                       
                                       Finance Master’s Program
                                       
                                       Ph.D. Program
                                    
                                 
                                 Faculty & Staff
                                 Research
                                       Seminars
                                       Faculty Publications
                                    
                                 
                                 News & Events
                                 Cook Analytics & Trading Lab
                                 Contact Us
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	FIR
                              	
                        
                              	Programs
                              	
                        M.S.B.A. - Concentration in Finance
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Master of Science in Business Administration Concentration in Finance
                     
                     The Master of Science in Business Administration program with a concentration in Finance
                        is a 33-hour program that usually can be completed within 2 years. The program offers
                        the most in depth exploration of Finance and related topics of any of the Master's
                        programs offered at the University of Memphis. Prominent features of the program are
                        the wide range of Finance electives, evening classes that are convenient to students
                        working in the Memphis area, and small class sizes.
                     
                     
                     Overview of the M.S. Program
                     
                     The Master of Science (MS) programs give students more emphasis in the specialty area
                        than traditional MBA programs. The Fogelman College offers the M.S.B.A. degree with
                        concentration in Management Information Systems (MIS) and Finance.
                     
                     
                     The MSBA program in Finance assumes a prequalification in Calculus. Students entering
                        with a bachelor's degree in Business or Engineering are usually able to enter the
                        program without further study.
                     
                     
                     The MSBA program in Finance consists of 6 hours from the Business Administration core,
                        12 hours from the FIR (Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate) core, and 15 hours of
                        elective courses. Under normal circumstances, a student would take 21-27 of the 33
                        hours from the FIR (Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate) area.
                     
                     
                     Applying to the M.S.B.A. Program in Finance
                     
                     Prospective students applying to the Finance program should submit an online application
                        and pay the relevant application fee ($35 for domestic students and $60 for international
                        students). They should also send transcripts of the undergraduate work and test scores
                        on either the GRE or GMAT to the Graduate Admissions Office. Candidates may get more
                        information about taking the GRE on campus by going to www.memphis.edu/testing. Once
                        applications are complete, the Graduate Admissions Office forwards them to the Graduate
                        Programs Office and the FIR department for review. For US students, the Fall application
                        deadline is July 1. The Spring application deadline is December 1.
                     
                     
                     Well-qualified undergraduate students who are in their final year of the BBA program
                        in the Fogelman College may benefit from the Accelerated BBA/MSBA Finance program.
                        Interested students must make an appointment with the MSBA Finance program coordinator
                        prior to registering for their final semester of undergraduate work. These students
                        must hold an undergraduate GPA of 3.25 or above. Once accepted in the accelerated
                        program, students may register for up to 9 hours of graduate courses that may count
                        for both undergraduate and graduate credit. As a result, students would be able to
                        earn the MSBA Finance degree with only 24 hours beyond the BBA degree. Another benefit
                        of the accelerated program is that prospective graduate students can avoid the GRE/GMAT
                        requirement.
                     
                     
                     The college requires an evaluation of transcripts by WES for students who are applying
                        for a graduate degree program in the Fogelman College who earned their last degree
                        at a university outside of the USA.
                     
                     
                     Program Course Requirements
                     
                     Business Administration Core (6 Hours)
                     
                     FIR 7155 Global Financial Management MIS 7650 Information Systems in the Global Enterprise
                     
                     
                     FIR Core (12 Hours)
                     
                     FIR 7410 Investment Theory and Portfolio Management FIR 7810 Advanced Financial Management FIR 7840 Quantitative Applications for Finance ACCT 7080 Financial and Managerial Accounting for Managers
                     
                     
                     Concentration Electives (15 Hours)
                     
                     Students must take 15 hours of elective courses. At least 9 hours must come from List
                        A. The remaining 6 hours may come from List A, List B, or related courses approved
                        by the coordinator.
                     
                     
                     List A (9-15 Hours)
                     
                     FIR 7170 Multinational Corporate Finance FIR 7171 International Financial Markets FIR 7173 Financial Analysis and Certifications FIR 7302 Real Estate Development and Sustainability FIR 7350 Real Estate Finance and Investment Analysis FIR 7648 Entrepreneurial Finance FIR 7721 Financial Derivatives
                     
                     
                     List B (0-6 Hours)
                     
                     FIR 6310 Real Estate Law FIR 6331 Stock Portfolio Management FIR 6340 Real Estate Appraisal FIR 6610 Cases in Managerial Finance FIR 6720 Management of Financial Institutions FIR 6770 Security Analysis and Portfolio Management FIR 6810 Property and Liability Insurance FIR 6820 Life and Health Insurance FIR 7301 Contemporary Real Estate Theory and Practice FIR 7911 Internship in Finance, Insurance & Real Estate ACCT 7140 Financial Statement Analysis ECON 7100 Economics for the Global Executive ECON 7310 Advanced Microeconomics ECON 7313 Economics of Risk and Uncertainty
                     
                     
                     Comprehensive Exam
                     
                     During the last semester of study, each student must pass an oral comprehensive exam.
                     
                     Internships
                     
                     Students in the MSBA program may obtain up to 3 hours of academic credit for finance-related
                        internships. In order to get 3 hours of credit for FIR 4911, they must work a minimum
                        of 150 hours in the internship and work with a faculty member to show evidence of
                        their accomplishments in the internship. A major advantage of studying in the Memphis
                        area is the wide variety of employers who are able to offer work and internship opportunities
                        for students.
                     
                     
                     The Professional Development Center (PDC) located in the Fogelman College offers a
                        wide variety of support services to students who need assistance finding internships
                        and career opportunities in the areas of finance and business. Students turn to the
                        PDC for help in improving their resumes, strategies to enhance their interviewing
                        and networking skills, and seminars to learn how to be successful in the corporate
                        world. Finance students benefit from the professional development series Futures in
                        Finance aimed specifically at students seeking a career in Finance.
                     
                     
                     Experiential Learning
                     
                     MSBA students seeking further practical learning in the investments area may benefit
                        from participating in the CFA Institute Research Challenge and the TVA Investment
                        Challenge. In the CFA Institute Research Challenge, selected students compete against
                        students from other universities to show evidence of superior ability in analyzing
                        a single company. In the TVA Investment Challenge, students invest actual money held
                        by the Tennessee Valley Authority with the goal of earning a higher return than teams
                        from other regional universities.
                     
                     
                     In both competitions, University of Memphis students have at their disposal the resources
                        of the Cook Analytics and Trading Lab, which is located on the ground floor of the
                        Fogelman Classroom Building. This new facility greatly enhances students' abilities
                        to conduct financial research and to acquire cutting-edge research skills that employers
                        seek.
                     
                     
                     Further Information
                     
                     The coordinator of the MSBA program in Finance is Mr. Leslie Mathis. Prospective students
                        can request more information by e-mailing him at lmathis@memphis.edu .
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Programs
                        
                           
                              
                              Programs
                                    
                                    Degree Programs
                                    
                                    Undergraduate Finance Course Catalog
                                    
                                    Undergraduate Finance Course Descriptions
                                    
                                    Business Finance Concentration
                                    
                                    Real Estate Concentration
                                    
                                    Banking and Financial Services Concentration
                                    
                                    Professional Real Estate Certificate
                                    
                                    Financial Analyst Certificate
                                    
                                    Financial Planning Certificate
                                    
                                    Finance Master’s Program
                                    
                                    Ph.D. Program
                                 
                              
                              Faculty & Staff
                              Research
                                    Seminars
                                    Faculty Publications
                                 
                              
                              News & Events
                              Cook Analytics & Trading Lab
                              Contact Us
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Cook Analytics & Trading Lab
                              Learn more about The Cook Analytics & Trading Lab and its innovative tools to help
                                 supplement traditional classroom teaching!
                              
                           
                           
                              Seminars
                              Keep up with the latest and greatest of the Finance industry and academic research
                                 in our upcoming seminars. 
                              
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us!
                           
                           
                              Return to FCBE
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 5/4/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/finance/programs/msba_program.php
