http://www.memphis.edu/fcbe/students/plagiarism.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Fogelman College of Business & Economics
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Programs
                        Students
                        Departments
                        Faculty & Staff
                        Research
                        News
                     
                     
                        
                           Students
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Students
                                       Future Students
                                       Current Students
                                       Undergraduate Student Services Office
                                    
                                 
                                 FCBE Academic Integrity
                                       
                                       FCBE Standards for Academic Integrity
                                       
                                       The Fogelman Student Code of Professionalism
                                       
                                       Netiquette Guide for Online Courses
                                       
                                       Understanding Plagiarism
                                    
                                 
                                 FCBE Complete Professional Program
                                 FCBE Internships
                                 FCBE Scholarships
                                 Student Organizations
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	FCBE
                              	
                        
                              	Students
                              	
                        Understanding Plagiarism
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Understanding Plagiarism
                     
                     Understanding Plagiarism and How to Properly Produce Academic Writing
                     
                     Many students do not understand when and how in their papers they should acknowledge
                        (cite) the use of materials written by others. In high school they may never have
                        been told that paraphrasing encyclopedias or textbooks or cutting and pasting from
                        Internet documents was wrong. But these and other improper uses of sources, called
                        plagiarism, are serious violations of University policy that could lead to your failing
                        an assignment or a course or being suspended or expelled from the University. Should
                        you commit plagiarism in a work you publish, you could face grave legal and financial
                        consequences. Fortunately, it is easy to learn the rules and apply them. If there
                        is ever any doubt, err on the side of acknowledging your source, or ask your instructor.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     While most plagiarism is of written material, the same principles apply to anything
                        produced by someone else, such as a painting or a song. They also apply to oral sources.
                        For example, if you take something from a lecture or from an interview or reproduce
                        a picture, you should cite your source.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     As you read and take notes on a source you might later use in a paper, you should
                        write down all the information that you will need for a proper citation. You should
                        be especially careful to indicate if any wording in your notes is a direct quotation.
                        This will save you a lot of effort trying to find the information later on, and more
                        importantly help you to avoid inadvertent plagiarism.
                     
                     
                     The use of sources
                     
                     The general rule
                     
                     In your writing, if you use any book (including a textbook, encyclopedia, or other
                        reference work), article, paper, letter, inscription, Web site, song, work of art,
                        or anything else produced by someone else, whether or not it is published and no matter
                        who the writer or creator is — a professional writer, your friend or relative, your
                        roommate, etc. — you must acknowledge this fact appropriately. You must acknowledge
                        the source whether you quote or reproduce it exactly, paraphrase it, or merely use
                        some of its ideas or arguments. You are using its ideas if you follow its organizational
                        structure, even if you do not quote or paraphrase it or use any of its content.
                     
                     
                     Elaboration on the general rule
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           Any direct quotation must be enclosed in quotation marks, or, if lengthy, set off
                              as a block quotation.
                           
                           
                           Paraphrasing a source does not mean changing a word or two or substituting synonyms.
                              It means completely rewriting in your own words. If you cannot do this you should
                              quote directly.
                           
                           
                           If you paraphrase, but include a phrase (or even a single word if it is an unusual
                              one) from the original source, it should be in quotation marks.
                           
                           
                           You must cite any idea or argument you take from a source, even if you do not quote
                              or paraphrase, and even if you develop that idea or argument beyond what is in the
                              original source.
                           
                           
                           As an extension of the previous point, if the structural organization of your paper
                              or any part of it depends upon someone else’s work, you must cite the source. For
                              example, if the source makes three main points and your paper makes the same three
                              points, you must cite the source, even if you develop those points in your own words.
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Exception to the general rule
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           The only exception to the general rule is if the information can be considered common
                              knowledge, which means that ALL of the following are true:
                           
                           
                           It is purely factual, such as that Leon Trotsky was born in 1879 or that the United
                              States Constitution was written in 1787 at Philadelphia.
                           
                           
                           It is widely accepted. If there is difference of opinion on whether the material is
                              true, you should cite your source.
                           
                           
                           It is widely available — found in many sources, such as encyclopedias, biographies,
                              textbooks, etc. If it is an obscure fact, found only, say, in an obscure book, you
                              should cite your source.
                           
                           
                           Even if the information is common knowledge, you must present it in your own words.
                              If you use exact words, you must quote and cite it.
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Notes about the rule
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           The rule might give you the impression that you must document literally every statement
                              you make, unless it is entirely original with you (you thought of it without looking
                              at any other material). In fact, you do not have to have a footnote for every sentence
                              you write. You may be able to let one citation cover a whole paragraph or even a series
                              of paragraphs, so long as your intention is clear to the reader.
                           
                           
                           Even if you follow all the rules correctly and everything you write is correct, that
                              does not mean that your paper necessarily deserves a good grade. A good paper has
                              to be largely your own work and thought. If it is merely a patchwork of correctly-cited
                              quotations or paraphrases you will not get a good grade.
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Bibliographies
                     
                     Some instructors may require you to have a bibliography at the end of your paper.
                        This should consist of a list of all the sources you used, with the proper information
                        about them.
                     
                     
                        It is important to note that having a bibliography does not relieve you of the responsibility
                        of citing the use of sources at the particular places in the body of the paper where
                        you used them. If you use endnotes, the bibliography should come at the very end of
                        the paper, after the endnotes.
                     
                     
                     More information
                     
                     Following the principles given above carefully will prevent you from committing plagiarism.
                        To understand the problem more clearly and get concrete examples of plagiarism, you
                        should read information developed by the University Libraries of the University of Memphis on avoiding plagiarism. You may be surprised by what you discover there.
                     
                     
                     Writing Styles (APA, etc.)
                     
                     There are many guides for citing the use of the words, ideas, or organizational structure
                        of other persons’ writing, by either footnotes (or endnotes) or parenthetical references.
                        Some of your faculty may require APA or others may require a different scholarly writing
                        style. The important thing to do is ask — before you write your paper — which one
                        your instructor wants you to use. The point is that, whatever guide you use, you must
                        cite the use of other persons’ writing, and you should use the form that your instructor
                        requires.
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Students
                        
                           
                              
                              Students
                                    Future Students
                                    Current Students
                                    Undergraduate Student Services Office
                                 
                              
                              FCBE Academic Integrity
                                    
                                    FCBE Standards for Academic Integrity
                                    
                                    The Fogelman Student Code of Professionalism
                                    
                                    Netiquette Guide for Online Courses
                                    
                                    Understanding Plagiarism
                                 
                              
                              FCBE Complete Professional Program
                              FCBE Internships
                              FCBE Scholarships
                              Student Organizations
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply to our Undergraduate Programs >
                              Enroll at the university and engage yourself with our six different departments, student
                                 enrichment, and more. 
                              
                           
                           
                              Apply to our Masters Programs >
                              Earn your degree with one of our five MBA tracks or with one of our four specialized
                                 Masters programs!
                              
                           
                           
                              Apply to our Doctoral Programs >
                              Interested in a Ph.D.? Start the journey towards your Ph.D. here!
                           
                           
                              Contact Us >
                              Have questions? Call or email today! 
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 5/24/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/fcbe/students/plagiarism.php
