http://www.memphis.edu/mscm/faculty/mamini.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Fogelman College - Department of Marketing & Supply Chain Management
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Welcome
                        Programs
                        Students
                        Faculty
                        PhD Students
                        Publications
                        FCBE
                     
                     
                        
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Welcome
                                 Programs
                                 Students
                                 Faculty
                                       MKTG Faculty
                                       SCM Faculty
                                    
                                 
                                 PhD Students
                                 Publications
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	MSCM
                              	
                        
                              	Faculty
                              	
                        M. MEHDI AMINI
                     
                  
                  
                     
                      
                     
                      
                        
                         
                           
                            
                              
                              
                              
                               
                              
                            
                           
                            
                              
                              
                                 
                                 MEHDI AMINI
                                 
                               
                              
                              
                                 
                                 George Johnson Professor,  Department of Marketing & Supply Chain Management
                                 
                               
                              
                               
                                 
                                  
                                    
                                    Phone 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       901.678.2479
                                       
                                     
                                    
                                  
                                 
                                  
                                    
                                    Email 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       mamini@memphis.edu
                                       
                                     
                                    
                                  
                                 
                                  
                                    
                                    Fax 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       901.678.2685
                                       
                                     
                                    
                                  
                                 
                               
                              
                               
                                 
                                  
                                    
                                    Office 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       FCB 229
                                       
                                     
                                    
                                  
                                 
                                  
                                    
                                    Office Hours 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       by appointment
                                       
                                     
                                    
                                  
                                 
                               
                              
                               
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 Website
                                  
                                 
                               
                              
                            
                           
                         
                        
                        
                        
                        Biography
                        
                        Dr. Amini is the George Johnson Professor of Supply Chain and Operations Management
                           in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics (FCBE), at The University of Memphis.
                           He is a Visiting Professor in the Division of Business Administration & Industrial Engineering, the Department
                           of Business Administration, Technology & Social Sciences, at the Luleå University
                           of Technology, Sweden. During 2011-2016, he held an Affiliate Professorship in the School of Industrial Engineering and Management, at the Royal Institute of
                           Technology, Sweden. He serves as Associate Director of FedEx Center for Supply Chain Management and Director of the Enterprise Simulation and Optimization Lab (eSOL) at the FedEx Institute of Technology , The University of Memphis. Also, he served as Director of FCBE Master Programs from 1994 to 1996.
                        
                        
                        Dr. Amini primary teaching areas are supply chain management, operations management,
                           sustainable enterprise and business analytics. He has been teaching in the undergraduate,
                           Professional MBA, Executive MBA, Customer-Driven MBA, and Ph.D. programs in United
                           States and countries in Europe, Africa, and Middle East.
                        
                        
                        His current research program is focused on issues relevant to: (a) supply chain/operations
                           management in service and manufacturing industries, (b) sustainable supply chain management,
                           (c) supply chain analytics, and (d) dynamics and analytics of new product diffusion
                           in consumer social networks. His publications include articles in Management Science , Journal of Production and Operations Management , OMEGA: International Journal of Management Science , INFORMS Journal on Computing , International Journal of Heuristics , European Journal of Operational Research , Operational Research Society Journal , International Journal of Operations and Production Management , International Journal of Production Research , Journal of Clean Production , Annals of Operations Research , Journal of Retailing , International Journal of Research in Marketing , and Journal of Information and Management . He has published over hundred conference proceedings and research abstracts. In
                           addition, Dr. Amini has contributed to cutting-edge books in the areas of application
                           of artificial intelligence in model-assisted managerial decision-making and supply
                           chain management.
                        
                        
                        Dr. Amini has received several millions dollars of funding from institutions within
                           the private and public sectors to support different research projects. Dr. Amini has
                           been involved in corporate research, consulting, and executive educational programs
                           for more than two decades. He has received several university awards for his teaching,
                           research, service and outreach efforts.
                        
                        
                        Dr. Amini holds a BA in Business Administration from The University of Tehran. He
                           received his MBA degree in Production Operations Management from The University of
                           North Texas, USA, and MS and Ph.D. degrees in Operations Research from Southern Methodist
                           University, USA.
                        
                        
                        Research
                        
                        Current Research Interests:
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           Supply chain design and configuration in the age of socially networked consumers
                           
                           Integrated closed-loop supply chain design for new and reconstructed products
                           
                           Status of corporate sustainability
                           
                        
                        
                        Contributed Book Chapters:
                        
                        
                           
                           Glover, F., G. Kochenberger, A. Alidaee, and M. Amini, “Solving Quadratic Knapsack
                              Problems by Reformulation and Tabu Search, Single Constraint Case,” Combinatorial and Global Optimization , Pardalos, Migdalas, and Bukard, Editors, World Scientific Publishing, 2002.
                           
                           
                           Amini, M.M., B. Alidaee, and G. Kochenberger, A Scatter Search Approach to Unconstrained
                              Quadratic Binary Programs, New Ideas in Optimization , Corne, Dorigo, and Glover (Eds.) McGraw-Hill, 2000. 
                           
                           
                           Glover, F., G. Kochenberger, B. Alidaee, M.M. Amini, A Tabu Search with Critical Event
                              Memory: An Enhanced Application for Binary Quadratic Programs, Meta-Heuristics: Advances and Trends in Local Search Paradigms for Optimization , Edited by Voss et al., Kluwer Academic Publishers, pp. 93-109,1998.
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        Refereed Journal Publications:
                        
                        
                           
                           Gaur, J., M. Amini, A.K. Rao, "Closed-Loop Supply Chain Configuration for New and
                              Repurposed Product: An Integrated Optimization Model," Forthcoming, OMEGA: The International Journal of Management Science , February 2016.
                           
                           
                           Nejad, M.G., M. Amini, D. Sherrell, "The Profit Impact of Heterogeneity and Assortativity
                              in the Presence of Negative Word-of-Mouth," International Journal of Research in Marketing , Vol. 33, No. 4, 2016.
                           
                           
                           Nejad, M.G., M. Amini, E. Babakus, "Success Factors in Product Seeding: The Role of
                              Homophily," Journal of Retailing , Vol. 91, No. 1, pp 68–88, 2015.
                           
                           
                           Amini, M and H. Li, "The Impact of Dual-Market on Supply Chain Configuration for New
                              Products," International Journal of Production Research , Vol. 53, No. 18, pp. 5669-5684, 2015.
                           
                           
                           Gaur, J., M. Amini, P. Banerjee, and R. Gupta, "Drivers of Consumer Purchase Intentions
                              for Remanufactured Products: A Study of Indian Consumers Relocated to USA," Qualitative Market Research: An International Journal , Vol. 18, No. 1, pp 30-47, 2015.
                           
                           
                           Nejad, M.G., M. Amini, E. Babakus, "Success Factors in Product Seeding: The Role of
                              Homophily," Journal of Retailing , Vol. 91, No. 1, pp 68–88, 2015.
                           
                           
                           Dehghan, M., J. A. Harrison, M. Scarbecz, S. E. Langham and M. Amini "Implementation
                              of the "Comprehensive Care" Educational Model: Student Survey at University of Tennessee
                              College of Dentistry," Journal of Dental Education , pp 133-139, 2015.
                           
                           
                           Amini, M., and C. Bienstock, "Corporate Sustainability: An Integrative Definition
                              and Framework to Evaluate Corporate Practice and Guide Academic Research," Journal of Cleaner Production , 76, pp 12-19, 2014.
                           
                           
                           Allen, D., M. Amini, B. Janz, E. Nichols, M. Racer, "The Human Supply Chain: Mapping
                              and Modeling the Flow of Human Capital for Navy 'Seabees'," Journal of Supply Chain and Customer Relationship Management , 2013(2013), Article ID 175961, DOI: 10.5171/2013.175961, 2013.
                           
                           
                           Amini, M., T. Wakolbinger, M. Racer, and M. Nejad, "New Product Diffusion in Presence
                              of Supply Chain Capacity Constraint and Negative Word of Mouth: An Agent- Based Modeling
                              and Simulation Approach," European Journal of Operational Research , Vol. 216, No. 2, pp 301-311, 2012.
                           
                           
                           Buffington, J., M. Amini, and K. Timur, "Development of a Product Design and Supply-Chain
                              Fulfillment System for Discontinuous Innovation," International Journal of Production
                              Research, Vol. 50, No. 14, pp 3776-3785, 2012.2.
                           
                           
                           Liu, G., M. Amini, E. Babakus, and M.R. Stafford "Handling Observations with Low Interrater
                              Agreement Values," Journal of Analytical Sciences, Methods and Instrumentation , 1 (2), pp 9-18, 2011.
                           
                           
                           Bienstock, C.C., M. Amini, D.R. Retzlaff-Roberts, “Re-Engineering a Reverse Supply
                              Chain for Product Returns Services,” To appear in the International Journal of Business Performance and Supply Chain Modeling , 3(4), pp 335-352, 2011.
                           
                           
                           Amini, M., and H. Li, “Supply Chain Configuration for Dynamic Diffusion of New Products:
                              An Integrated Optimization Approach,” Omega: International Journal of Management Science , Vol. 39, pp. 313–322, 2011.
                           
                           
                           Amini, M.M., R.F. Otondo, B.D. Janz, and M.G. Pitts, “Simulation Modeling and Analysis:
                              A Collateral Application and Exposition of RFID Technology,” Journal of Production and Operations Management , Vol. 16, No. 5, pp. 586-598, 2007. 
                           
                           
                           Glover, F., M.M. Amini, and G. Kochenberger, “Parametric Ghost Image Processes for
                              Fixed-Charge Network Problems: A Study of Transportation Networks,” Journal of Heuristics , Vol. 11, pp. 307-336, 2005.
                           
                           
                           Amini, M.M., D. Retzlaff-Roberts, and C. Bienstock, “Designing a Reverse Logistics
                              Operation for Short Cycle Repair Services,” International Journal of Production Economics , Vol. 96, No. 3, pp. 367-380, 2005.
                           
                           
                           Alidaee, B., M.M. Amini, and G. Kochenberger, “A Greedy Solutions of Selection and
                              Ordering Problems,” European Journal of Operational Research , Vol. 134, No. 1, pp. 203-215, 2001.
                           
                           
                           Amini, M.M., D. Retzlaff-Roberts, “A Reverse Logistics Process Reengineering: Improving
                              Customer Service Quality,” Cycle Time Research Journal , Vol. 5, No. 1, pp. 31-42, 1999.  
                           
                           
                           Amini, M.M., D. Retzlaff-Roberts, “A Multi-Facility Decisions for Meeting Customer
                              Service,” Cycle Time Research Journal , Vol. 5, No. 1, pp. 13-20, 1999.
                           
                           
                           Amini, M.M., M. Racer, "Heuristic Sensitivity Analysis in a Combinatoric Environment: 
                              An Exposition and Case Study," European Journal of Operational Research , Vol. 108, No. 3, pp. 604-617, 1998.
                           
                           
                           Schmitt, L., and M.M. Amini, "Performance Characteristics of Alternative Genetic Algorithmic
                              Approaches to the Traveling Salesman Problem: An Empirical Study, European Journal of Operational Research , Vol. 108, No. 3, pp. 551-570, 1998.
                           
                           
                           Retzlaff-Roberts, D., and M.M. Amini, "A Decision Support System for Integrated Part
                              Inventory Management: Improving Customer Service Quality," Cycle Time Research Journal , Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 33-42, 1998.
                           
                           
                           Amini, M.M., and S. Mehra, "The Impact of Inflation on the Optimal Lot Sizing with
                              Regular Inspections," International Journal of Operations and Quantitative Management , Vol. 2, No. 3, pp. 191-204, 1996.
                           
                           
                           Amini, M.M., and M. Racer, "A Hybrid Heuristic for the Generalized Assignment Problem,"
                              European Journal of Operational Research , Vol. 87, pp. 343-348, 1995.
                           
                           
                           Amini, M.M., and M. Racer, "A Rigorous Computational Comparison of Alternative Solution
                              Methodologies for the Generalized Assignment Problem," Management Science , Vol. 40, No. 7, pp. 868-890, 1994.
                           
                           
                           Amini, M. M. and R. S. Barr, "Network Reoptimization: A Statistically Designed Comparison,"
                                  ORSA Journal on Computing , Vol. 5, No. 4, pp. 395-409, 1993.
                           
                           
                           Racer, M., and M.M. Amini, "A Robust Heuristic for the Generalized Assignment Problem,"
                              Annals of Operations Research , Vol. 50, pp. 487-503, 1994.
                           
                           
                           Amini, M. M., "Determining the Minimum Cost Bid for Asset Evaluation of Insolvent
                              Saving and Loan Institutions," Journal of Operational Research , Vol. 45, No. 9, pp. 999-1010, 1994.
                           
                           
                           Mehra, S., and M.M. Amini, "A Simulation Analysis of Ordering Policies Under Inflationary
                              Conditions," International Journal of Operations and Production Management , Vol. 14, No. 10, pp. 72-83, 1994.
                           
                           
                           Amini, M. M., "Vectorization of an Auction Algorithm for Solving Linear Assignment
                              Problem," Computers and Industrial Engineering , Vol. 26, No. 1, pp. 141-149, 1994.
                           
                           
                           Amini, M. M., R. E. Schooley, "Supercomputing In Corporate America: A Sample Survey," Information and Management , Vol. 24, pp. 291-303, 1993.
                           
                           
                           Amini, M. M., and G. Greer, "Determining the Minimum Bid Price for Projects Involving
                              Analysts from Multiple Locations," Journal of Real Estate Research , Vol. 8, No. 2, pp. 265-278, 1993.
                           
                           
                           Amini, M. M., R. Nath, and R. E. Schooley, "The Status of Supercomputing in the Schools
                              of Business," the Journal of Computer Information Systems , Vol. 32, No. 4, pp. 25-28, 1992.
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        
                         
                        
                      
                     
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                        
                           
                              
                              Welcome
                              Programs
                              Students
                              Faculty
                                    MKTG Faculty
                                    SCM Faculty
                                 
                              
                              PhD Students
                              Publications
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Majors & Minors
                              See how a Marketing Management or a Supply Chain Management degree can benefit you!
                           
                           
                              Marketing & Supply Chain Management Internship Program
                              Want to gain “real world” work experience related to your academic studies?  Look
                                 no further!
                              
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us!
                           
                           
                              Return to FCBE
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/mscm/faculty/mamini.php
