http://www.memphis.edu/mscm/faculty/ebabakus.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Fogelman College - Department of Marketing & Supply Chain Management
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Welcome
                        Programs
                        Students
                        Faculty
                        PhD Students
                        Publications
                        FCBE
                     
                     
                        
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Welcome
                                 Programs
                                 Students
                                 Faculty
                                       MKTG Faculty
                                       SCM Faculty
                                    
                                 
                                 PhD Students
                                 Publications
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	MSCM
                              	
                        
                              	Faculty
                              	
                        EMIN BABAKUS
                     
                  
                  
                     
                      
                     
                      
                        
                         
                           
                            
                              
                              
                              
                               
                              
                            
                           
                            
                              
                              
                                 
                                 EMIN BABAKUS
                                 
                               
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Professor,  Department of Marketing & Supply Chain Management
                                 
                               
                              
                               
                                 
                                  
                                    
                                    Phone 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       901.678.3857
                                       
                                     
                                    
                                  
                                 
                                  
                                    
                                    Email 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       ebabakus@memphis.edu
                                       
                                     
                                    
                                  
                                 
                                  
                                    
                                    Fax 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       901.678.4051
                                       
                                     
                                    
                                  
                                 
                               
                              
                               
                                 
                                  
                                    
                                    Office 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       BA 327
                                       
                                     
                                    
                                  
                                 
                                  
                                    
                                    Office Hours 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       MW 12:45pm-2:15pm and by appointment
                                       
                                     
                                    
                                  
                                 
                               
                              
                               
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 Website
                                  
                                 
                               
                              
                            
                           
                         
                        
                        
                        
                        Biography
                        
                        Dr. Babakuş is a Professor of Marketing in the Marketing & Supply Chain Management
                           Department of the Fogelman College of Business & Economics at The University of Memphis.
                        
                        
                        Dr. Babakuş’s research interests include quality and customer satisfaction measurement,
                           services management and marketing issues. His research has been published in the Journal of Marketing Research, Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, International Journal of Research in Marketing, Journal of Retailing , Decision Sciences , Journal of Service Research , Journal of Business Research , Journal of Advertising Research, European Journal of Marketing, Journal of Personal
                              Selling & Sales Management, Health Services Research, Journal of Statistical Computation
                              & Simulation, and in the conference proceedings of the American Marketing Association, Academy
                           of Marketing Science and Decision Sciences Institute. He continues to make invited
                           and peer reviewed presentations at various universities as well as at national and
                           international conferences. Dr. Babakuş currently serves on the editorial review boards
                           of the Journal of Service Research, Journal of Services Marketing, and Journal of Consumer Marketing .
                        
                        
                        Dr. Babakuş has conducted research projects and educational programs for a number
                           of corporations and nongovernmental agencies. Prior to his doctoral studies, Dr. Babakuş
                           was a production manager for a corrugated paper products firm in Istanbul, Turkey,
                           where his responsibilities included overseeing production and operations of a plant,
                           which operated 24/7.
                        
                        
                        Research
                        
                        Representative Publications:
                        
                        Yavas, Ugur, Osman M. Karatepe and Emin Babakus (2014), “Exploring the Role of Organisational
                           and Personal Resources in Explaining Nurse Performance in Public Hospitals in the
                           Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus,” Journal of Health Management , 16 (1), 1-12 (lead article).
                        
                        
                        Billing, Tejinder K., Rabi S. Bhagat, Emin Babakus, Balaji Krishnan, David L. Ford
                           Jr., B. N. Srivastava, Ujvala Rajadhyaksha, Mannsoo Shin, Ben Kuo, Catherine Kwantes
                           Bernadette Setiadi, and Aizzat Mohd. Nasurdin (2014), “Work-Family Conflict and Psychological
                           Strain: The Moderating Role of Decision Latitude in Five National Contexts,” Applied Psychology: An International Review , 63 (1), 62-95.
                        
                        
                        Nejad, Mohammad G., Daniel L. Sherrell and Emin Babakus (2014), “Influentials and
                           Influence Mechanisms in New Product Diffusion: An Integrative Review,” Journal of Marketing Theory and Practice , 22 (2), 187–209.
                        
                        
                        Mangold, W. Glynn, Emin Babakus, Katherine T. Smith (2014), “Trust and the Online
                           Conversation: The Case of Online Reviews,” International Journal of Internet Marketing and Advertising , 8 (2), 143-160.
                        
                        
                        Alexandrov, Aliosha, Bryan Lilly, and Emin Babakus (2013),”The Effects of Social-
                           and Self-Motives on the Intentions to Share Positive and Negative Word of Mouth,”
                           J ournal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 41 (5), 531-546.
                        
                        
                        Jha, Subhash, George D. Deitz, Emin Babakus, and Ugur Yavas (2013), “The Role of Corporate
                           Image for Quality in the Formation of Attitudinal Service Loyalty,” Journal of Service Research, 16(2) 155-170.
                        
                        
                        Yavas, Ugur, Emin Babakus, and Osman M. Karatepe (2013), “Does Hope Moderate the Impact
                           of Job Burnout on Frontline Bank Employees’ In-role and Extra-role Performances?”
                           International Journal of Bank Marketing , 31 (1), 56-70.
                        
                        
                        Yavas, Ugur, Osman O. Karatepe, and Emin Babakus (2013), “Who is Likely to Quit Nursing
                           Jobs? A Study in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus,” Health Marketing Quarterly 30 (1), 80-96.
                        
                        
                        Billing, Tejinder K., Rabi S. Bhagat, and Emin Babakus (2013), “Task Structure and
                           Work Outcomes: Exploring the Moderating Role of Emphasis on Scheduling,” Management Research Review, 36 (2), 136-152.
                        
                        
                        Liu, Gensheng (Jason), Rachna Shah, and Emin Babakus (2012), “A Fine-Grained Examination
                           of Mass Customization’s Impact on Customer Satisfaction,” Decision Sciences , 43 (5), 851-887.
                        
                        
                        Babakus, Emin and Ugur Yavas (2012), “Customer Orientation as a Buffer against Job
                           Burnout,” The Service Industries Journal, 32 (1/2), 5-16 ( lead article ).
                        
                        
                        Yavas, Ugur, Osman M. Karatepe, and Emin Babakus (2011), "Do Customer Orientation
                           and Job Resourcefulness Moderate the Impact of Interrole Conflicts on Frontline Employees’
                           Performance?" Tourism and Hospitality Research, 11 (2), 148-159.
                        
                        
                        Babakus, Emin, Ugur Yavas, and Nicholas J. Ashill (2011), “Service Worker Burnout
                           and Turnover Intentions: Roles of Person-Job Fit, Servant Leadership and Customer
                           Orientation,” Services Marketing Quarterly, 32 (1), 17-31.
                        
                        
                        Yavas, Ugur, Osman M. Karatepe, and Emin Babakus (2011), “Interrole Conflicts in the
                           Hospitality Industry: The Role of Positive Affectivity as an Antidote,” FIU Hospitality Review , 29 (2), 88-103.
                        
                        
                        Davis, Peter S., Emin Babakus, Paula Danskin Englis, and Tim Pett (2010), “The Influence
                           of CEO Gender on Market Orientation and Performance in Service SMEs,” Journal of Small Business Management, 48 (4), 475-496.
                        
                        
                        Teaching
                        
                        Dr. Babakus frequently teaches MKTG 4080 - Marketing Research, MKTG 7213 – Research
                           Methodology, and MKTG 8216 – Measurement and Structural Equation Modeling.
                        
                        
                        Service
                        
                        University Service 
                        
                        Dr. Babakus is currently serving as a member of departmental P&T, graduate and journal
                           classification committees, College Continuous Improvement Committee, and University
                           Distinguished Teaching Award Selection Committee.
                        
                        
                        Service to Discipline
                        
                        Dr. Babakus currently serves on the editorial review boards of the Journal of Service Research, Journal of Services Marketing and Journal of Consumer Marketing . His prior editorial review board service includes the Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science , and Journal of Business Research . He has been serving as an ad hoc referee for the Decision Sciences Journal , Journal of Operations Management , and Journal of International Business Studies . He has also served as a session and track chair as well as a referee for several
                           national and international annual meetings.
                        
                        
                        Dr. Babakus maintains memberships in the American Marketing Association, Decision
                           Sciences Institute, and the Academy of Marketing Science.
                        
                         
                        
                      
                     
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                        
                           
                              
                              Welcome
                              Programs
                              Students
                              Faculty
                                    MKTG Faculty
                                    SCM Faculty
                                 
                              
                              PhD Students
                              Publications
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Majors & Minors
                              See how a MSCM degree can benefit you!
                           
                           
                              MSCM Internship Program
                              Want to gain “real world” work experience related to your academic studies?  Look
                                 no further!
                              
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us!
                           
                           
                              Return to FCBE
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/9/15
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/mscm/faculty/ebabakus.php
