http://www.memphis.edu/bitm/faculty/sandrarichardson.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Fogelman College - Department of Business Information and Technology
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        BIT
                        Programs
                        Faculty
                        Research
                        Admissions
                        Current Students
                        FCBE
                     
                     
                        
                           Faculty
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Vladimir Ambartsoumian
                                 Lloyd Brooks
                                 Judith Brown
                                 Jasbir Dhaliwal
                                 Mark Gillenson
                                 Brian Janz
                                 Bill Kettinger
                                 Naveen Kumar
                                 Euntae "Ted" Lee
                                 Jong Seok Lee
                                 Robin Poston
                                 Sandra Richardson
                                 Margaret Schultz
                                 Judith Simon
                                 Srikar Velichety
                                 Chen Zhang
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	BIT
                              	
                        
                              	Faculty
                              	
                        Sandra Richardson
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                     		  
                     
                        
                        
                        
                           
                           
                                                               
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Sandra Richardson
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Associate Professor, DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS INFORMATION AND TECHNOLOGY
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Phone
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       901.678.4614
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Email
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       srchrdsn@memphis.edu
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Fax
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       901.678.4151
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Office
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       313 Fogelman Administration Building
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Office Hours
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       By Appointment
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                                 										
                                 
                                 
                                                                         
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        			 
                        			  
                        
                        
                        About Sandra Richardson
                        
                        Dr. Richardson is an associate professor of Business Information and Technology. in
                           the Fogelman College of Business and Economics at the University of Memphis. She is
                           also a Systems Testing Research Fellow for the Fed Ex Institute of Technology.
                        
                        
                        Dr. Richardson's primary research interests focus on content, presentation, and impact
                           of information on decision making using decision support systems. She is also interested
                           in IT-enabled collaboration, and e-learning. She applies these interest areas to two
                           primary contexts; healthcare and the social sector.
                        
                        
                        In the healthcare context Dr. Richardson conducts research related to patient decision
                           aids (PtDAs) and clinical decision support systems. She is also interested in the
                           impact of IT-enabled education and collaboration on public and global health. She
                           has completed extensive research in palliative and hospice care organizations related
                           to patient education, treatment, and end-of-life decision making. She has also conducted
                           research in the area of IT-enabled global education and collaboration related to pediatric
                           infectious disease and oncology.
                        
                        
                        Related to the social sector, Dr. Richardson is interested in the impact of IT-enabled
                           education and collaboration on the ability of social sector organizations to positively
                           impact social conditions; the role of information technology in establishing processes,
                           infrastructure, and performance measures for the social sector organizations; and,
                           the impact of collaborative technologies on organizational agility in the social sector.
                        
                        
                        Other research areas of interest include the relationships between information technology
                           and ethics, information systems design and development, project management, creativity,
                           leadership, and strategy. She is also interested in qualitative methodologies applied
                           to MIS research.
                        
                        
                        Dr. Richardson has published in Decision Support Systems, Communications of the AIS,
                           Information Systems Frontiers, ICIS, AMCIS, HICCS, and SAIS. She has taught courses
                           in Strategic Management of Information Technology, Healthcare and Technology, Systems
                           Analysis and Design, Decision Support Systems, Information Management, Project Management,
                           and Hardware and Software.
                        
                        
                        Dr. Richardson has over 10 years of industry experience in Management Information
                           Systems, Accounting, Finance, Project Management and Operations Management. She has
                           worked extensively in the healthcare industry, utility industry, banking, and finance.
                           She holds a Ph.D. in Management Information Systems from the University of Central
                           Florida, a M.S. in Management Information Systems from Texas Tech University, and
                           a B.S. in Psychology/Pre-Med from the University of New Mexico.
                        
                        
                        Education
                        
                        Doctor of Philosophy, The University of Central Florida Master of Science, Texas Tech University Bachelor of Science, The University of New Mexico
                        
                        
                        Interests
                        
                        Teaching Interests
                        
                        IT Strategy and Management; Project Management; Systems Analysis & Design; Healthcare
                           Information Systems; Ethics & Philosophy of IT
                        
                        
                        Research Interests
                        
                        Healthcare Information Systems; Patient Communication & Education Systems; IT use
                           in Developing Countries; IT use in Social Enterprises (entrepreneurism); Ethics and
                           Philosophy of IT; Innovation & Strategy; Leadership
                        
                        
                        Selected Research
                        
                        Richardson, S., Banks, M. S., Kettinger, W., and Quintana, Y., "IT and Agility in
                           the Social Enterprise: A Case Study of St Jude Children's Research Hospital's 'Cure4Kids
                           IT-Platform for International Outreach," Journal of the Association of Information
                           Systems, 15(1), 2014, 1-32.
                        
                        
                        Moeller, G., Zhang, X., and Richardson, S., "Understanding Antecedents of Interpersonal
                           Conflict in Information systems Development: A Critical Analysis," Journal of Information
                           Technology Management, 23(3), 12-43. 2012.
                        
                        
                        Gillenson, M., Racer, M., Richardson, S., and Zhang, X., "Engaging Testers Early and
                           Throughout the Software Development Process: Six models and a Simulation Study," Journal
                           of Information Technology Management, XXII (1), 2011, 8-27.
                        
                        
                        Limpornpugdee, W., Janz, B., and Richardson, S. 2010. "Communications and Competence
                           Factors as Moderators to the Relationship Between User Participation and Information
                           Quality." Journal of Information Technology Management (forthcoming).
                        
                        
                        Richardson, S. M. 2007. "'Can You Hear What I See?' Nonverbal Communication and the
                           Changing Face of TML," Communications of the AIS (20:58). Abstract
                        
                        
                        Linden, L., Kuhn, R., Parish, J. Richardson, S., Adams, L., Courtney, J. 2007. "Churchman
                           Inquiring Systems: Kernel Theories for Knowledge Management," Communications of the
                           AIS (20:52). Abstract
                        
                        
                        Richardson, S. M., Courtney, J. F. and Haynes, J. D. 2006. "Theoretical Principles
                           for Knowledge Management System Design: Application to Pediatric Bipolar Disorder,"
                           Decision Support Systems (42:3), pp. 1321-1337. Abstract
                        
                        
                        Richardson, S. M., Courtney, J. F. and Paradice, D. B. 2006. "An Assessment of the
                           Singerian Approach to Organizational Learning: Cases from Academia and the Utility
                           Industry," Special Issue of Information Systems Frontiers on Philosophical Reasoning
                           in Information Systems Research (3:1), pp. 49-62. Abstract
                        
                        
                        For a more comprehensive list of Dr. Richardson's publications click here
                        
                        
                     
                     								
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Faculty
                        
                           
                              
                              Vladimir Ambartsoumian
                              Lloyd Brooks
                              Judith Brown
                              Jasbir Dhaliwal
                              Mark Gillenson
                              Brian Janz
                              Bill Kettinger
                              Naveen Kumar
                              Euntae "Ted" Lee
                              Jong Seok Lee
                              Robin Poston
                              Sandra Richardson
                              Margaret Schultz
                              Judith Simon
                              Srikar Velichety
                              Chen Zhang
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              BIT News
                              Publications, recognitions and spotlights about faculty and students of the BIT department.
                           
                           
                              BIT Events
                              Find out what's happening at the department and visit our weekly colloquium.
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us!
                           
                           
                              Return to FCBE
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/6/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/bitm/faculty/sandrarichardson.php
