http://www.memphis.edu/fcbephd/academics/faqs.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   		
   	
   		
   
   
   		
   		
   
   
   	
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Fogelman College - Doctoral Programs
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Welcome
                        Programs
                        Students
                        Faculty & Staff
                        Research
                        News
                        FCBE
                     
                     
                        
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Academics
                                       Curriculum
                                       Program Concentrations
                                       Ph.D. Degree Learning Outcomes
                                    
                                 
                                 How To Apply
                                 Students
                                       Information for Students
                                       Program Policies
                                       Policy For Retention Appeal Hearing
                                    
                                 
                                 Alumni News
                                 FAQs
                                 Contact Us
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	FCBEPhD
                              	
                        
                              	Academics
                              	
                        FAQs 
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     FAQs
                     
                     When are the admission deadlines?
                     
                     Does anyone really read the resume, letters of recommendation, and personal statement
                              of interest?
                     
                     Do you accept Admission to the Program in the Spring?
                     
                     What exactly does it mean that your programs and the Fogelman College of Business
                              and Economics are accredited by the AACSB?
                     
                     Can International Students apply for an assistantship?
                     
                     What does an assistantship cover? What is the process?
                     
                     Do you accept part-time students in the Ph.D. program?
                     
                     My TOEFL is more than two-years old. Do I have to re-take it if I have my Master’s
                              degree from a US institution?
                     
                     Is the TSE required?
                     
                     Why is the GMAT score so important?
                     
                     Does the program have distance learning courses?
                     
                     My Master’s degree is not in Business.  Can I still apply to the Ph.D. program?
                     
                     My Master’s degree did not require a GMAT.  Do I still need a GMAT score to apply
                              to the PhD?
                     
                     Is the GRE acceptable to apply for the PhD program?
                     
                     My master’s degree institution is accredited by another association. Will I still
                              be able to apply to the program with my grad degree or does it have to be from an
                              AACSB accredited business program?  
                     
                     Can I apply to the PhD program in the Fall, even though I will not complete my master
                              degree til December of that year?
                     
                     Top of Page
                     
                       When are the admission deadlines?
                     
                     Fall semester College and Assistantship Deadline: March 1st University Deadline: May 1st for Internationals, July 1st for Domestic
                     
                     
                       Does anyone really read the resume, letters of recommendation, and personal statement
                           of interest?
                     
                     Yes! The Program Coordinator, the Associate Dean and the Admissions Committee read
                        the materials that are submitted with every application in order to understand the
                        nature of the students that are applying to the program and to insure that there is
                        a clear fit between the Area program objectives and the applicant's objectives. More
                        importantly, if there is any question about the suitability of the applicant for the
                        program in terms of the quantitative admission criteria (GMAT/ GRE score and GPA)
                        these materials provide important information to the Committee.
                     
                     
                       Do you accept Admission to the Program in the Spring?
                     
                     Typically, no.  Under special circumstances, departments will accept for the Spring. 
                        You should consult the program coordinator for the concentration of interest.
                     
                     
                        What exactly does it mean that your programs and the Fogelman College of Business
                           and Economics are accredited by the AACSB?
                     
                     The Fogelman College of Business and Economics is one of the premier schools of business
                        in the Mid-South and the only business school in West Tennessee that is fully accredited
                        by the AACSB-International, the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business.  
                        AACSB International accreditation represents the highest standard of achievement for
                        business schools worldwide. Institutions that earn accreditation confirm their commitment
                        to quality and continuous improvement through a rigorous and comprehensive peer review. 
                        Accreditation reviews are conducted every 10 years, and the accreditation of the Fogelman
                        College was reaffirmed in 2002.   The AACSB accreditation is the most widely respected
                        standard, both in the US and in the rest of the world, exclusively for colleges and
                        schools of business.
                     
                     
                     In addition, The University of Memphis accredited by SACS (Southern Association of
                        Colleges and Schools), which applies to the entire university. 
                     
                     
                     Top of Page
                     
                       Can International Students apply for an assistantship?
                     
                     Yes. International Students can apply for an assistantship.  Assistantships are competitive
                        and require a minimum GMAT of 600 (GRE combined score of 1200).
                     
                     
                       What does an assistantship cover? What is the process?
                     
                     An Assistantship requires a minimum 600 GMAT or 75th percentile. An assistantship
                        offers a tuition waiver for the Fall and Spring semesters and a stipend of $12,000
                        for the academic year ($1,500 a month for eight months). A student is required to
                        enroll in 9 credit hours of courses each semester and work 20 hours per week each
                        semester as a research and/or teaching assistant.
                     
                     
                     To apply for an assistantship, fill out the Department Financial Assistance Application during the admissions process and submit it to the Ph.D. Programs Office with the
                        Departmental Supporting Materials.
                     
                     
                       Do you accept part-time students in the Ph.D. program?
                     
                     Yes, but it is a departmental decision. You should contact the PhD Concentration Coordinator
                        before applying.
                     
                     
                       My TOEFL is more than two-years old? Do I have to re-take it if I have my Master’s
                           degree from a US institution?
                     
                     No. You can request a waiver of the TOEFL by submitting a written request with your
                        application. 
                     
                     
                       Is TSE required?
                     
                     No.  TSE is not required, but may be submitted if you are applying for a Teaching
                        Assistantship. 
                     
                     
                     Top of Page
                     
                       Why is the GMAT score so important?
                     
                     As do almost all accredited schools of business, we use the Graduate Management Admission
                        Test as a standardized assessment of the qualifications of applicants for advanced
                        study in business and management.  It has been validated by studies of applicants
                        and students all over the world as one predictor of academic performance in graduate
                        management programs.  The GMAT has been shown to be an excellent predictor of success
                        in graduate school, although it is not a perfect predictor nor should it be used as
                        the only criteria for admission.
                     
                     
                     We must consider the GMAT in addition to the applicant’s academic performance and
                        other application information.   The GPA cannot be used alone, however.   It is difficult
                        to compare the rigor of academic study across schools and programs, meaning that sometimes
                        a 3.5 GPA might have been easier to attain in some programs and schools than a 2.8
                        GPA in others, making it hard to accurately judge that the applicant with the 3.5
                        GPA is more qualified than the 2.8 GPA applicant.  In addition, some of our applicants
                        have more education and professional experience.  The GMAT can give us a more recent
                        assessment and basis of comparison across all applicants.
                     
                     
                       Does the program have distance learning courses?
                     
                     No. We do not offer distance learning courses in the Ph.D. program.
                     
                       My Master’s degree is not in Business.  Can I still apply to the Ph.D. program?
                     
                     Yes.  If your background is not in business, you may be required to take some prerequisite
                        courses to prepare you for the Ph.D. program curriculum.
                     
                     
                     Top of Page
                     
                       My Master’s degree did not require a GMAT.  Do I still need a GMAT score to apply
                           to the PhD?
                     
                     Yes.  Our program requires GMAT or GRE.  
                     
                       Is the GRE acceptable to apply for the PhD program?
                     
                     Yes. The GRE is acceptable for all concentrations.
                     
                       My master’s degree institution is accredited by another association. Will I still
                           be able to apply to the program with my grad degree or does it have to be from an
                           AACSB accredited business program? 
                     
                     Yes, you can still apply. 
                     
                       Can I apply to the PhD program in the Fall, even though I will not complete my master
                           degree til December of that year?
                     
                     Yes, you can. You must complete a Change of Status form. Indicate on the form that
                        you want to apply to the PhD program and indicate the semester and year you will complete
                        your Master’s degree, then submit the form to the Graduate Admissions Office.
                     
                     
                     Top of Page
                     
                     FAQs
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                        
                           
                              
                              Academics
                                    Curriculum
                                    Program Concentrations
                                    Ph.D. Degree Learning Outcomes
                                 
                              
                              How To Apply
                              Students
                                    Information for Students
                                    Program Policies
                                    Policy For Retention Appeal Hearing
                                 
                              
                              Alumni News
                              FAQs
                              Contact Us
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Program Concentrations
                              Learn about our doctoral offerings!
                           
                           
                              Information for Students
                              Looking for forms or policies?  Look no further!
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us!
                           
                           
                              Return to FCBE
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/9/15
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/fcbephd/academics/faqs.php
