http://www.memphis.edu/bitm/faculty/jasbirdhaliwal.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Fogelman College - Department of Business Information and Technology
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        BIT
                        Programs
                        Faculty
                        Research
                        Admissions
                        Current Students
                        FCBE
                     
                     
                        
                           Faculty
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Vladimir Ambartsoumian
                                 Lloyd Brooks
                                 Judith Brown
                                 Jasbir Dhaliwal
                                 Mark Gillenson
                                 Brian Janz
                                 Bill Kettinger
                                 Naveen Kumar
                                 Euntae "Ted" Lee
                                 Jong Seok Lee
                                 Robin Poston
                                 Sandra Richardson
                                 Margaret Schultz
                                 Judith Simon
                                 Srikar Velichety
                                 Chen Zhang
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	BIT
                              	
                        
                              	Faculty
                              	
                        Jasbir Dhaliwal
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                     		  
                     
                        
                        
                        
                           
                           
                                                               
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Jasbir Dhaliwal
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Professor, Vice Provost (Academic), and Dean of Graduate School
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Phone
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       901.678.4653
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Email
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       jdhaliwl@memphis.edu
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Fax
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       901.678.0378
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Office
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       215 Administration Building
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Office Hours
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       By Appointment
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                                 										
                                 
                                 
                                                                         
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        			 
                        			  
                        
                        
                        About Jasbir Dhaliwal
                        
                        As Chief Innovation Officer of the University, Dr. Jasbir Dhaliwal leads strategic
                           innovation priorities for the President's Office to modernize the university's academic
                           and research culture. This includes serving as the Executive Director of the FedEx
                           Institute of Technology which, as the front door to the university's research capabilities
                           and infrastructure, promotes interdisciplinary research clusters, corporate engagement
                           and technology commercialization. As Dean of the Graduate School, Dr. Dhaliwal has
                           strategic responsibility for all aspects of the university's portfolio of 114 graduate
                           programs that enroll about 4000 graduate students in studies at the doctoral, masters
                           and graduate certificate levels. As Vice Provost for Academic Affairs he supports
                           the Office of the Provost on key priorities to advance the university's academic mission.
                           He is a qualified accountant and holds the MBA and PhD (Management Information Systems)
                           degrees from the University of British Columbia in Canada.
                        
                        
                        His research has appeared in scholarly journals such as Information Systems Research,
                           IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, International Journal of Electronic Commerce,
                           International Journal of Production Economics, Journal of Organizational Computing
                           & Electronic Commerce, Knowledge Acquisition, Information & Management as well as
                           in the proceedings of numerous international research conferences. He has also co-authored
                           a book on E-Business Innovation that is published by Prentice-Hall/Pearson Education
                           and has served as Program Chair of the Pacific Asian Conference on Information Systems.
                        
                        
                        His diverse international academic management experience includes: being the founding
                           director of the first Canadian university-based research center/incubator for electronic
                           commerce at the Technical University of British Columbia (now Simon Fraser University);
                           serving as Deputy Director of the Centre for Management of Technology at the National
                           University of Singapore; directing a graduate program in information management at
                           the Norwegian School of Management in Oslo; and serving as Chair of the Department
                           of Information Systems at Northern Kentucky University where he launched an offering
                           of the university's Master of Science in Information Systems program in Moscow, Russia.
                           He has also served as Associate Dean for Research and Academic Programs of the Fogelman
                           College of Business & Economics and prior to that as the Chair of the Department of
                           Management Information Systems at the University of Memphis.
                        
                        
                        He is also active internationally as an executive trainer and technology advisor completing
                           projects for organizations such as FedEx, the Department of Defense, Johnson & Johnson,
                           Dehart Group, Medtronics, Unilever, Cynergy, Trans-link Logistics, Anderson Consulting,
                           Ericsson Telecommunications, Sapura Advanced Systems, IBM, Port of Singapore Corporation,
                           Norsk Hydro, Kontena Nasional, Alcatel Bell Shanghai, McDonnell-Dettwiler Canada,
                           Guiness Anchor, Den Norsk Bank, Asia Pacific Institute for Information Technology,
                           Canadian Federation of Innovation and the ASEAN-European Union Management Center.
                        
                        
                        His other interests focus primarily on modern immigrant narratives, post-national
                           identities, nurturing global mindsets, and investing in new technology ventures.
                        
                        
                        Education
                        
                        Doctor of Philosophy, University of British Colombia Master of Business Administration, University of British Colombia Bachelor of Science, University of Malaya
                        
                        
                        Interests
                        
                        Research Interests
                        
                        Software Testing; Quality of Software Services; Strategic IT Governance; Technology
                           Entrepreneurship, Graduate Education
                        
                        
                        Selected Research
                        
                        Zhang, X., Onita, C., and Dhaliwal, J. 2014. "The Impact of Software Testing Governance
                           Choices,' Journal of Organizational and End User Computing, Vol. 26(1), Jan-March,
                           pp. 66-85.
                        
                        
                        Zhang, X., Stafford, T., Dhaliwal, J., Gillenson, M. and Moeller, G. 2014. "Sources
                           of Conflict between Developers and Testers in Software Development," Information &
                           Management, Vol. 51 (1), pp. 13-26.
                        
                        
                        Zhang X., Dhaliwal J., Gillenson M., and Stafford T. 2013. "The Impact of Conflict
                           Judgments between Developers and Testers in Software Development," Journal of Database
                           Management, Vol. 24 (4), pp. 26-50.
                        
                        
                        Meservy, T., Zhang, C., Lee, E. and Dhaliwal, J. 2012. "The Business Rules Approach
                           and Its Impact on Software Testing", IEEE Software, July/August, pp. 60-68.
                        
                        
                        Dhaliwal J., Onita, C., Poston, R. and Zhang, X. 2012. "Alignment within the Software
                           Development Unit: Assessing Structural and Relational Dimensions between Developers
                           and Testers," Journal of Strategic Information Systems, Vol. 20 (4), December, 323-342.
                        
                        
                        Onita, C., and Dhaliwal, J. 2011. "Alignment within the Corporate IT Unit: An Analysis
                           of Software Testing and Development," European Journal of Information Systems (20:1),
                           pp. 48-68. Abstract
                        
                        
                        Zhang, C., and Dhaliwal, J. 2009. "An Investigation of Resource-Based and Institutional
                           Theoretic Factors in Technology Adoption for Operations and Supply Chain Management,"
                           International Journal of Production Economics (120:1), pp. 252-269. Abstract
                        
                        
                        Teo, T., Ranganathan, C., and Dhaliwal, J. 2006. "Key Dimensions of Inhibitors for
                           the Deployment of Web-Based Business-to-Business Electronic Commerce," IEEE Transactions
                           on Engineering Management (53:3), pp. 395-411. Abstract
                        
                        
                        Ranganathan, C., Dhaliwal, J. and Teo, T. 2004. "Assimilation and Diffusion of Web
                           Technologies in Supply Chain Management: An Examination of Key Drivers and Performance
                           Impacts" International Journal of Electronic Commerce, (9:1), Fall 2004, pp. 127-161.
                           Abstract
                        
                        
                        Dhaliwal, J. and Tung, L. L. 2000. "Using Group Support Systems for Developing a Knowledge-Based
                           Explanation Facility," International Journal of Information Management," (20), pp.131-149.
                        
                        
                        Dhaliwal, J and Benbasat, I. 1996. "The Use and Effects of Knowledge-based System
                           Explanations: Theoretical Foundations and A Framework For Empirical Evaluation", Information
                           Systems Research, (7:3), September 1996, pp. 342-362. Abstract
                        
                        
                        For a more comprehensive list of Dr. Dhaliwal's publications click here
                        
                        
                     
                     								
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Faculty
                        
                           
                              
                              Vladimir Ambartsoumian
                              Lloyd Brooks
                              Judith Brown
                              Jasbir Dhaliwal
                              Mark Gillenson
                              Brian Janz
                              Bill Kettinger
                              Naveen Kumar
                              Euntae "Ted" Lee
                              Jong Seok Lee
                              Robin Poston
                              Sandra Richardson
                              Margaret Schultz
                              Judith Simon
                              Srikar Velichety
                              Chen Zhang
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              BIT News
                              Publications, recognitions and spotlights about faculty and students of the BIT department.
                           
                           
                              BIT Events
                              Find out what's happening at the department and visit our weekly colloquium.
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us!
                           
                           
                              Return to FCBE
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/6/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/bitm/faculty/jasbirdhaliwal.php
