http://www.memphis.edu/bitm/news/spotlights.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Fogelman College - Department of Business Information and Technology
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        BIT
                        Programs
                        Faculty
                        Research
                        Admissions
                        Current Students
                        FCBE
                     
                     
                        
                           News
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Spotlights
                                 Recognitions
                                 Publications
                                 Newsletter
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	BIT
                              	
                        
                              	News
                              	
                        Spotlights 
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Spotlights
                     
                     The Department of Business Information and Technology Welcomes Dr. Srikar Velichety
                        as a Tenure-Track Faculty Member
                     
                     
                     Please join the Department of Business Information and Technology in welcoming a new
                        faculty member, Srikar Velichety, PhD. Dr. Velichety joins us from the University
                        of Arizona and brings with him teaching and applied research experience in business
                        intelligence and analytics. His research interests are in business analytics with
                        a focus on Big Data, User Generated Content and Social Media.
                     
                     
                     During his PhD program in Arizona, Dr. Velichety taught and supported undergraduate
                        and graduate courses in business analytics and statistics. He offers students an enjoyable
                        learning experience by facilitating lively discussions on a variety of relevant topics.
                        He holds a PhD degree from the University of Arizona, Tucson, MS in Information Technology
                        and BS in Information Technology from Indian Institute of Information Technology and
                        Management.
                     
                     
                     BIT Master's Program Gets An Upgrade
                     
                     The graduate degree formerly known as a Master's of Science in Business Administration
                        (MSBA) with a concentration in Business Information & Technology (BIT) now has a shorter,
                        more effective name: Master's of Science in Information Systems. The new degree name
                        is part of the BIT department's decision to upgrade the program to an official STEM
                        (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) degree. The STEM distinction more
                        accurately reflects the University of Memphis' technical, hands-on application focus
                        when preparing its graduate students for the job market. As an added bonus, the upgrade
                        will allow international students who join the program to apply for extended optional
                        practical training (OPT), which can translate to more time at a given employer.
                     
                     
                     For more information contact Ashley Holloway the MSIS Advisor at anhollwy@memphis.edu / 901-678-3656, or Dr. Sandi Richardson the MSIS Faculty Advisor at srchrdsn@memphis.edu / 901-678-4613.
                     
                     
                     BIT announces the new Charles & Edna Neumann Scholars and Travelers programs
                     
                     The BIT department will implement two new programs in the Fall 2016 semester, thanks
                        to the generosity of Dr. Bill Neumann. Dr. Neumann has agreed to provide annual funding
                        for the BIT Neumann Scholars Program and the BIT Neumann Travelers Program, to honor
                        his late parents Charles and Edna Neumann.
                     
                     
                     The Scholars Program will offer FCBE students a $200 financial award and an exclusive
                        invitation to participate in many of BIT's exclusive activities. Some of these activities
                        will include: invitations to social gatherings with BIT faculty and distinguished
                        FCBE guests; membership to Association of Management Information Systems (AMIS) student
                        organization; participation in real-world IT experiences of the Technology Careers
                        in Business (TCB) program; invitations to networking with business professionals,
                        faculty, and students; opportunities to apply for BIT/MIS-related internships; and
                        access to the people and activities that will let students build a stronger professional
                        resume.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Neumann has also agreed to provide annual funding for the BIT Neumann Travelers
                        Program. Through this program, BIT students can apply for reimbursement of their expenses
                        related to travel for professional conferences, up to $1000. The program will support
                        BIT students who will be presenting papers, posters, or creative work at the conferences
                        they attend.
                     
                     
                     From left to right: Jason Keen, BIT Advisory Board president; Marianne Hartquist,
                           director FCBE College Development; Bill Neumann, program donor; and Margaret Schultz,
                           BIT faculty member.
                     
                     Students 'Knock-the-socks-off' Hilton Executives with MIS 4800 Capstone Projects
                     
                     April 25 and 27, 2016, 27 graduating Business Information & Technology Seniors working
                        in teams presented their final semester-long projects to Hilton Corporation executives,
                        Kevin Morgan, Director of Hampton Brand Performance Support at Hilton Worldwide and
                        Elisabeth Benson, Digital Product Innovation at Hilton Worldwide. Project activities
                        utilized the standard Hilton project development process with faculty oversight. Student
                        teams created technology-driven problem-solving devices and applications for Hilton
                        hotels. Student final presentations included describing the technology strategy, architecture,
                        design and testing, and deployment and monitoring approaches for successful adoption
                        execution in Hilton hotels. Student innovations included: in room Virtual Reality
                        for local tourist, hands-free room entry convenience, housekeeping just-in-time alerts,
                        inventory management, and Amazon-locker kiosks.
                     
                     
                     Illuminate me about BIT/MIS, but make it quick.
                     
                     The Department of Business Information and Technology (BIT) @ UofM and Business and
                        Legal Studies @ Southwest Community College (SWCC) Hosts Passion-Packed Lightning
                        Talks
                     
                     
                     On April 21st in the Academic Building Macon Campus of SWCC, twelve BIT and SWCC faculty,
                        students, board members, and friends each gave a 5-minute, passion-packed presentation
                        about what technology careers means to them. The rapid-fire surges of ideas, stories,
                        and engagement followed a format of 20 slides that auto-advanced every 15 seconds.
                        Audience members learned, laughed, and were inspired.
                     
                     
                     The goal of the Lightning Talks event is to create a buzz about technology careers
                        and build a stronger community of like-minded students, alumni, advisory board members,
                        and regional industry folks. The rapid-fire format was chosen to offer a series of
                        thought-provoking topics in a quick, insightful manner in order to convey important
                        ideas and allow for multiple presenters to share their thoughts in a short time period.
                        If you couldn't make it to this year's event, don't worry, we will have videos of
                        the talks on our website soon.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        
                           
                           Welcome by Greater Memphis IT Council, by Regina Whitley, Executive Director, Greater
                              Memphis IT Council
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        
                           
                           Why tech? Why Memphis?, by Robert Montague, Tech901, Memphis
                           
                        
                        
                        
                           
                           Bring You Business Out of the Closet...Literally! Technology in the Home-based Business
                              Industry, by Beverly Anderson, Virtual Bookkeeper & Founder of the Home-based Business
                              Chamber
                           
                           
                        
                        
                        
                           
                           IT Architect – Roles and Responsibilities, by Shaji Thomas, Technical Principal, FedEx
                           
                        
                        
                        
                           
                           My startup failed and it's all marketing's fault, by Brad Montgomery, former UofM
                              and Southwest employee, and Seed Hatchery alumni
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     First Annual TechUP Competition
                     
                     TechUP – hosted by students (AMIS) and BIT Dept to encourage learning a new technology
                        to share with and inspire others and impress potential employers
                     
                     
                     On April 9th the Association of Management Information Systems (AMIS) and the Department
                        of Business Information and Technology (BIT) hosted the first annual TechUP competition
                        for students. Participants were required to learn a new technology and make a presentation
                        of what they had learned to local IT professionals. There were three winners out of
                        the eighteen participants: Michael Slauson, Venkatesh Varma Mandapti, and Herve Aniglo.
                        Micheal Slauson presented Desktop and Server virtualization. Venkatesh Varma Mandapti
                        presented Programming in R. Herve Aniglo presented Creating Music with Python. Each
                        winner received a $100 VISA gift card. All participants received a Certificate of
                        Achievement and were treated to lunch with IT professionals and BIT faculty.
                     
                     
                     More Information available on www.um-amis.org/techup-2016
                     
                      
                     
                     undergraduate students using IBM's innovative analytics platform, Watson Analytics
                     
                     Here at University of Memphis' Fogelman College of Business and Economics undergraduate
                        students are using IBM's innovative analytics platform, Watson Analytics, to conduct
                        the types of data analyses used in today's businesses to inform decision makers. In
                        MIS 3210, Critical Thinking and Project Management, Professors Son Bui, Richard Kumi,
                        Margaret R. Schultz and Vladimir Ambartsoumian teach students critical thinking methods
                        and project management, using two of the most popular analytical tools: Microsoft
                        Excel and IBM's Watson Analytics.
                     
                     
                     Using Watson Analytics, students have a chance to explore survey data, analyze real
                        world business problems, and develop data-driven solutions. After just a brief demonstration,
                        students are able to identify important patterns, trends, and relationships in a large
                        dataset of transaction records. In addition, students discover unexpected causal relationships
                        in large datasets. Son Bui reports "My students enjoy how simple the software is,
                        and how sophisticated it can be in helping to explore hidden relationships."
                     
                     
                     In addition to using Watson, these undergraduate students make extensive use of Microsoft
                        Excel to conduct various other types of data analyses such as breakeven analysis,
                        what-if analysis, sales forecasting, data summarization, and data visualization using
                        pivot tables.
                     
                     
                     The Department of Business Information and Technology Welcomes Dr. Naveen Kumar as
                        a Tenure-Track Faculty Member
                     
                     
                     Please join the Department of Business Information and Technology in welcoming a new
                        faculty member, Naveen Kumar, PhD. Dr. Kumar brings more than a decade of applied
                        research experience in business intelligence and analytics. His research interests
                        are in business analytics with a focus on developing statistical and data mining methods
                        for contemporary big data applications in information systems and healthcare. He has
                        made significant contributions in industry by solving critical business problems in
                        IT, Finance, Manufacturing, and Healthcare. His recent research interest includes
                        development of analytical methods that empower decision-makers to accomplish their
                        information goals through real-time context based assistance across multiple devices.
                     
                     
                     During his 5-year academic career in Oregon, Dr. Kumar taught undergraduate and graduate
                        courses in business analytics and statistics. He offers students a variety of real-world
                        experiences which he shares in the classroom through storytelling and practical application
                        exercises. Dr. Kumar finds it personally gratifying to hear from students after they
                        have graduated, who share their experiences about using the advanced data analysis
                        and empirical modeling skills they learned in his classes. He holds a PhD degree from
                        the University of Washington, Seattle, where he was a Boeing/GTTL scholarship winner
                        for excellent scholarly achievement.
                     
                     
                     New Name Announced: Department of Business Information and Technology (BIT)!
                     
                     At the Fogelman College of Business and Economics at the University of Memphis, we
                        are proud to announce that we have changed our name from the Department of Management
                        Information Systems (MIS) to the Department of Business Information and Technology
                        (BIT). The new name, BIT, reflects our increasing emphasis on teaching and research
                        directed at how to collect and interpret information for strategic and tactical decision-making,
                        as well as, how to leverage technology to gain business efficiencies. We intend to
                        continue building on our teaching and research efforts focused on how companies can
                        better exploit business analytics software, secure data through leading edge information
                        assurance, test software to ensure its quality, and provide best practices about how
                        to manage successful IT projects and make strategic IT decisions. The new name aligns
                        us well with the changing nature of our industry partner organizations and our innovative
                        field. Our current degree offerings, email addresses, and web domains remain unchanged.
                     
                     
                     Judy Simon named ISACA Academic Advocate
                     
                     Dr. Judy Simon, professor of Management Information Systems, has been selected as
                        an ISACA Academic Advocate and accepted as a member of the Memphis ISACA chapter.
                        Dr. Simon is now part of a worldwide network that has more than 115,000 members in
                        180 countries. Advocates cover a variety of professional IT related jobs such as IS
                        auditor, consultant, educator, IS security professional, chief information officer,
                        and internal auditor.
                     
                     
                     Through ISACA, Dr. Simon will provide FCBE students (as well as other interested students)
                        with up-to-date instructional materials related to a wide range of topics that affect
                        information security. Development of additional MIS course content regarding information
                        security and privacy is underway. Most organizations today need help with information
                        security issues, resulting in an increased need for employees with greater awareness
                        of these areas of need, regardless of the type of business.
                     
                     
                     ISACA is widely recognized for its COBIT framework, as well as its certificates: CISA
                        (Certified Information Systems Auditor), CGEIT (Certified in the Governance of Enterprise
                        IT), CISM (Certified Information Security Manager), and CRISC (Certified in Risk and
                        Information Systems Control), as well as numerous educational materials. They have
                        recently added Cybersecurity to their wealth of training resources. ISACA's instructional
                        materials are designed to provide greater awareness among students regarding those
                        topics, while also providing an introduction to topics covered in more depth in their
                        Certificate programs.
                     
                     
                     A recent article titled, "15 Top-Paying Certifications for 2015" was published in
                        the February edition of Global Knowledge. This article focused much of its discussion
                        on the top five highest-paying certificates, with a comment that business fields were
                        "holding their own." Four of the top five certificates are specifically related to
                        security, and three of those top five are ISACA certificates.
                     
                     
                     Illuminate me, but Make it Quick! - The Department of Business Information and Technology
                        hosts passion packed lightning talks
                     
                     
                     On March 26th in the University Center Ballroom, twelve BIT faculty, students, board
                        members, and friends each gave a 5-minute, passion-packed presentation about what
                        BIT means to them. The rapid-fire surges of ideas, stories, and engagement followed
                        a format of 20 slides that auto-advanced every 15 seconds. Audience members learned,
                        laughed, sang, and were inspired. On top of all the enlightenment, with snacks provided,
                        breakout sessions provided an opportunity for networking and engaging in more in-depth
                        discussions with the speakers and other participants.
                     
                     
                     The goal of the Lightning Talks event was to create a buzz about BIT and build a stronger
                        community of like-minded students, alumni, advisory board members, and region industry
                        folks. The rapid-fire format was chosen to offer a series of thought-provoking topics
                        in a quick, insightful manner in order to convey important ideas and allow for multiple
                        presenters to share their thoughts in a short time period. If you couldn't make it
                        to this year's event, don't worry, see videos of the talks below: 
                     
                     
                     Susan Caldwell 
                     
                     
                           
                     
                     Susan Caldwell, who does IT and Services Talent Acquisition at Wellton LLC, spoke
                        about the great career opportunities in the MIS field in a speech at the University
                        of Memphis.
                     
                     
                     Tevin Howell
                     
                     
                           
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Tevin Howell, a Business Information and Technology student at the University of Memphis
                        talks about cyber security in a speech at the University of Memphis.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Richard Kumi
                     
                     
                           
                     
                     Dr. Richard Kumi, an instructor of Business Information and Technology at the University
                        of Memphis, spoke about the data implications of wearable devices in a speech at the
                        University of Memphis.
                     
                     
                     Marlaina Love
                     
                     
                           
                     
                     Marlaina Love, a Business Information and Technology student at the University of
                        Memphis, talks Innovation in the Tech field in a speech at the UofM.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Jong Lee
                     
                     
                           
                     
                     Dr. Jong Lee, an Assistant Professor of Business Information and Technology at the
                        University of Memphis, talks about Change Management in Organizations in a speech
                        at the UofM.
                     
                     
                     Bill Kettinger received Best Paper Award
                     
                     Bill Kettinger, Chair of Excellence and Professor of BIT/MIS, received the Best Paper
                        Award at the Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences (HICSS) in the 105
                        paper, Organizational Systems and Technology Track, for his paper entitled, "Late
                        to the Game: Assessing IT Integration Risk After the Acquisition Target has Been Identified."The
                        paper was co-authored by Stefan Hennningsson of the Copenhagen Business School. In
                        its 48th year, HICSS attracts close to 1000 researchers from around the world . Its
                        papers are published in the Proceedings by the IEEE Computer Society Press and carried
                        in the IEEE digital library Xplore. HICSS is the #1 IS conference in terms of citations
                        as recorded by Google Scholar.
                     
                     
                     Abstract : Although IT integration (referring to integration of hardware, software, data, and
                        related practices) is essential for the realization of the business synergies that
                        motivate an acquisition, only 24% of companies include IT in the due diligence before
                        the acquisition. The reality is that IT managers must often assess risk quickly and
                        accurately to develop an IT integration plan after an acquisition decision has been
                        made. To assist these managers, this article derives a framework for assessing IT
                        integration risk in acquisitions. Based on the multi-acquisition experiences of Trelleborg
                        AB, a global industrial company that uses acquisitions as a component of its corporate
                        strategy, the proposed framework's merits are illustrated in both high- and low-risk
                        acquisitions. Insights gained from Trelleborg provide recommendations for Chief Information
                        Officers in assessing and managing IT-related risk in acquisitions after the acquisition
                        target has been identified.
                     
                     
                     Judy Simon Co-Hosts "Cyber Security Summit"
                     
                     The two directors of the University of Memphis Center for Information Assurance, Drs.
                        Dipankar Dasgupta, professor of Computer Science, and Judy Simon, professor of Business
                        Information and Technology, hosted a "Cyber Security Summit" at the FedEx Institute
                        of Technology on October 17th, to coincide with National Cyber Security Month.
                     
                     
                     The all-day program included ten speakers, including representatives from the Department
                        of Homeland Security, National Science Foundation, Oak Ridge National Laboratory,
                        Norwich University Applied Research Institute, and others. The event was well attended
                        and included multiple vendor exhibits. Copies of speakers' presentations will be available
                        on the Center's website soon at http://cybersummit.memphis.edu/ .
                     
                     
                     Brian Janz Receives 2014 Best Paper Award
                     
                     Dr. Ernie Nichols, associate professor of Supply Chain Management and director of
                        the FedEx Center for Supply Chain Management, and Dr. Brian Janz, professor of BIT/MIS
                        and FedEx Institute of Technology Innovator in Residence, recently received the 2014
                        Society of Information Management (SIM) Best Paper Award for their paper entitled,
                        "Re-Visioning IT for Value: The Value Stream Initiative at Buckman." The reward will
                        be presented at the 2014 SIMposium where they will also have the opportunity to present
                        their work. This paper was co-authored with Tim Meek, CIO of Buckman, and John Oglesby,
                        director of Corporate Systems and IT Governance at Buckman.
                     
                     
                     "Their hard work is most deserving of such a prestigious award," said Dr. Marla Royne
                        Stafford, Great Oaks Foundation Professor of Marketing and chair of the Department
                        of Marketing and Supply Chain Management. "This paper is an outstanding example of
                        university and industry collaboration."
                     
                     
                     SIM is a community of IT thought leaders that provides a network for IT leadership
                        opportunities while exploring the IT's future direction and providing professional
                        assistance in the form of online assistance and association and industry publications.
                     
                     
                     "Drs. Janz and Nichols' impressive SIM Best Paper Award reminds us that, through the
                        collaborative efforts of academia and our local industry partners, innovative breakthroughs
                        and inspirational thinking can be achieved," said Dr. Robin Poston, Papasan Family
                        Professor and interim chair of the Department of Business Information and Technology.
                        "Their applied research is a great example of how the Fogelman College supports businesses
                        in our regional Memphis economy and beyond by engaging in meaningful dialogs concerning
                        IT's value-add to business activities."
                     
                     
                     In this paper, an account is offered of the Value Stream Initiative (VSI), a comprehensive,
                        value-based analysis of all IT-related activities at Buckman Laboratories, an international
                        chemical manufacturer of 1,600 employees with offices and customers in over 90 countries.
                        Focus is put on how the company set out to redefine itself and its IT organization
                        using "value" as the focal point for analysis to address key issues surrounding the
                        search for enhanced value from IT in Buckman's operations.
                     
                     
                     8th International Research Workshop on Advances and Innovations in Software Testing
                     
                     The Systems Testing Excellence Program (STEP) of the University of Memphis at the
                        FedEx Institute of Technology, in partnership with the International Test and Evaluation
                        Association (ITEA), is pleased to invite you to participate in the 8th International
                        Research Workshop on Advances and Innovations in Software Testing on November 3-4,
                        2014. The workshop features a full day of research paper presentations on Monday,
                        November 3 and a full day of tutorials on Tuesday, November 4. The 2014 Annual Technology
                        Review, organized by ITEA, will be held on November 4-6. Participants attending both
                        events will receive discounted admission.
                     
                     
                     Location : Memphis, Tennessee at the FedEx Institute of Technology.
                     
                     
                     Accepted submissions: Theoretical and practical aspects of testing including hardware
                        testing, software testing, requirements testing, and the testing of business rules.
                     
                     
                     STEP is an interdisciplinary research program under the auspices of the FedEx Institute
                        of Technology that brings together the Departments of Computer Science, Management
                        Information Systems, and Electrical & Computer Engineering.
                     
                     
                     The workshop is a mixture of presentations and open discussions, and the participation
                        from both academic and industry practice generated a full and free interchange of
                        ideas and methodologies on software testing.
                     
                     
                     For additional information, please visit https://umdrive.memphis.edu/g-mis/www/memphis/step/STEP2014/index.html
                     
                     Dr. Thomas Stafford appointed editor for Decision Sciences Journal ( DSJ )
                     
                     
                     Dr. Thomas Stafford, professor of Business Information and Technology, was recently
                        appointed to the role of editor for Decision Sciences Journal ( DSJ ), a premier-level business research journal focused on quantitative aspects of business
                        decision-making. DSJ specifically focuses on top-quality methodological examinations of the problems facing
                        managers in modern workplaces.
                     
                     
                     Prior to this role, Dr. Stafford served two complete terms as editor-in-chief for
                        another acclaimed journal, ACM Data Base for Advances in Information Systems. He also
                        served as a guest editor for thirteen different journal special issues, including
                        publications such as MIS Quarterly , Decision Sciences Journal of Innovative Education , and IEEE Transactions on Professional Communication . He will be joined by Dr. Cheri Speier-Pero, professor of Information Systems at
                        Michigan State University, as co-editor.
                     
                     
                     "Fogelman College is thrilled that DSJ has appointed Dr. Stafford for this role," said Dr. Robin Poston, interim chair of
                        the Management Information Systems Department. "In achieving this well-deserved recognition,
                        Dr. Stafford has enabled the MIS department to further notoriety among the academic
                        community by hosting one of the top academic decision-making journals in the field."
                     
                     
                     "We are extremely proud of Dr. Stafford's recent appointment to this prestigious position,"
                        said Dr. Rajiv Grover, FCBE dean. "Dr. Stafford's role as editor of such an acclaimed
                        publication brings light to the high-level of academic excellence demonstrated by
                        faculty at the Fogelman College and the University of Memphis."
                     
                     
                     "In the time that I have served at Fogelman College, we have aspired to match some
                        of the most competitive and well-respected academic institutions in the country,"
                        said Dr. Stafford. "In bringing the Decision Sciences Journal to our College, we have
                        now risen to the level of several of top-ranked BIT/MIS departments in the country
                        as ranked by US News and World Report. This is a successful achievement of Dean Grover's
                        vision for the advancement of the reputation, status, and global visibility of Fogelman
                        College. Moving forward, we can now acknowledge that we have met the rigorous performance
                        of many of our peer school and now can reach even higher in our aspirations."
                     
                     
                     TCB hosting interactive sessions with employers of Sedgwick, Methodist, and First
                        Tennessee Bank
                     
                     
                     Technology Careers In Business (TCB) is a professional development program specifically
                        designed for MIS majors. Focused on providing insight into different career paths
                        and industries, TCB participants will interact with employers and learn more about
                        cutting-edge technology programs. Program participants should have successfully completed
                        at least one of the following courses, MIS 3770, 3775, or 3790. To receive credit,
                        students must attend and complete all sessions in their entirety. To register, please
                        complete the application form and return to room 274 or send to professional@memphis.edu .
                     
                     
                     Technology in the Insurance Industry – A Focus on How Emerging Technology is Creating
                           an Industry Evolution Wednesday, October 22; 4 pm – 6 pm Host: Sedgwick Claims Management Services Inc.
                     
                     
                     Technology is Transforming Healthcare for Patients, Families and Physicians Wednesday, October 29; 4 pm – 6 pm Host: Methodist Le Bonheur Healthcare.
                     
                     
                     Technology Careers In Banking—Data Analytics and Security Career Paths for the Future Wednesday, November 5; 4 pm – 6 pm Host: First Tennessee Bank Each session is held at the host's facility.
                     
                     
                     Event details will be sent to all confirmed attendees upon completed registration.
                        Space is limited so register early! Deadline for registration is October 10th.
                     
                     
                     Find additional information and registration form here.
                     
                     AMIS hosting two part event on how to master the interview process
                     
                     The Association for Management Information Systems (AMIS) is hosting a two part series
                        on the secrets of mastering the interview process where real employees reveal their
                        top secrets to a successful interview. AMIS is a registered student organization open
                        to both graduate and undergraduate students interested in MIS. The mission of AMIS
                        is to introduce students into the MIS profession and to provide students with opportunities
                        that will enhance their educational and social development as an MIS professional.
                        Join us and guest speakers from First Tennessee Bank and FedEx at these events! Pizza
                        and refreshments will be served and all MIS majors are welcome to attend.
                     
                     
                     Session 1: First Tennessee Employers Thursday, September 11th 4PM – 5:30PM FCBE 128
                     
                     
                     Session 2: FedEx Employers Thursday, September 18th 4PM – 5:30PM FCBE 128
                     
                     
                     For more information visit the AMIS website or check out the event flyer here.
                     
                     
                     Bill Kettinger, invited editor at ECIS 2014
                     
                     Bill Kettinger was an invited speaker at the 22nd European Conference on Information
                        Systems in Tel Aviv Israel.. Bill presented on June 11 at the 'Meet the Journal Editors
                        Panel' where he represented both MIS Quarterly and MIS Executive as Senior Editor.
                        This session provided attendees with an opportunity to meet editors from the leading
                        MIS journals, who shared key points about their respective journals. Advice was given
                        to assist researchers targeting top ranked journals.
                     
                     
                     Department of BIT hosted Dr. Freddy Coronado from the University of Chile
                     
                     The Department of BIT at the University of Memphis recently hosted a visiting scholar,
                        Dr. Freddy Coronado from the University of Chile. While visiting in May 2014, Dr.
                        Coronado built synergistic relationships with students and faculty across multiple
                        business disciplines, engaged with students in masters courses, the Complete Professional
                        Program, and MILE program. He also provided input for PhD student research and participated
                        in industry partner meetings, sharing research insights and ideas in his area of expertise
                        of internal management controls. Many of the long-lasting effects of his many engagements
                        include work started with the Study Abroad Director drawing up a MOU, efforts pursued
                        with the Director of the Fogelman MBA Programs sharing ideas about graduate programs
                        and opportunities for collaboration, and ideas conveyed with the Chair of Excellence
                        of Accountancy talking about how to incorporate corporate social responsibility on
                        undergraduate curriculum and opportunities for developing activities with Chilean
                        companies. Dr. Coronado also met with the Associate Dean for Academic Programs and
                        BIT and Marketing faculty to share teaching and research ideas. Finally, Dr. Coronado
                        shared his research expertise engaging with local business partners at FedEx, StartCo,
                        and St. Jude, among others. Dr. Coronado earned his Ph.D. in Accounting at Michigan
                        State University, Contador Auditor at the Universidad de Chile, and Ingeniero en Información
                        y Control de Gestión at the Universidad de Chile.
                     
                     
                     bit PhD Student Outstanding Teaching Award
                     
                     We are happy to announce the recipients of the first Outstanding BIT PhD Student Teaching
                        Award: Jeff Kaleta and Deepti Agrawal!
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     The Award is sponsored by the BIT Advisory Council to recognize outstanding teaching
                        in the department by a doctoral student. Each spring, eligible students wishing to
                        be considered for the award may apply with the PhD coordinator by assembling and submitting
                        a packet of supporting materials. After careful evaluation by the selection committee,
                        the applicants are selected and will be honored with a plaque during the BIT Advisory
                        Council meeting.
                     
                     
                     Congratulations to Deepti and Jeff to their achievement!
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                     bit Phd Student Outstanding Teaching Award
                     
                     Good News for IS graduates! The 2013 AIS IS Job Index Reports:
                     
                     
                     IS Pays Well:
                     
                     
                        
                        Bachelors IS Students salary: $57,212
                        
                        Master IS student salary: $65,394
                        
                        Contrast: All Bachelor student salary average: $44,928
                        
                     
                     
                     IS Job Market is Healthy:
                     
                     
                        
                        78% IS placement near graduation
                        
                        Contrast: 39% of all graduates receive an offer near graduation
                        
                     
                     
                     IS Graduates are happy!
                     
                     
                        
                        76% of IS graduates are satisfied with their jobs
                        
                     
                     
                     University of Memphis Systems Testing Excellence Program (STEP) availability for systems
                        testing certification programs
                     
                     
                     The University of Memphis Systems Testing Excellence Program (STEP) has availability
                        for two upcoming systems testing certification programs to be held on the University
                        of Memphis campus.
                     
                     
                     STEP Foundational (Basic) five-day Program scheduled for the week of February 10th.
                     
                     STEP Advanced Program beginning Monday, February 3rd and meeting for a total of 10
                        Mondays spread from February to May.
                     
                     
                     Please contact me directly with your interest in these programs at Mark.Gillenson@memphis.edu or (901) 678-5607.
                     
                     
                     (However, if you work for FedEx, please contact Pam Goldsmith directly at pjgoldsmith@fedex.com or (901) 263-5886.)
                     
                     
                     For details and enrollment forms please visit step@memphis.edu click "Research-Based Certifications in Systems Testing" for the Foundational and
                        Advanced Programs.
                     
                     
                     Association for Information Systems recognizes University of Memphis Chapter (AMIS)
                        for its exceptional efforts
                     
                     
                     The Association for Information Systems (AIS) announced that the University of Memphis Chapter of the Association for Information Systems has been recognized for the chapter's efforts in the area of Professional Development,
                        Careers in IS, Community Service, Fundraising, and Membership.
                     
                     
                     This award recognizes deserving student chapters that have excelled in one or more
                        of the following areas: professional development, membership, careers in IS, community
                        service, fundraising, and communications.
                     
                     
                     AIS will officially recognize the chapter during the 2013 International Conference on Information Systems to be held in Milan, Italy. The awards presentation will occur during the Awards
                        Luncheon on Tuesday, December 17th at 12 pm.
                     
                     
                     Congratulations to our AMIS Chapter members for earning this award and to advisors
                        Brian Janz and Margaret Schultz for preparing students for this award.
                     
                     
                     Systems Testing Excellence Program (STEP) announces certification program
                     
                     The Systems Testing Excellence Program (STEP) of the FedEx Institute of Technology
                        at the University of Memphis announces its systems testing certification programs
                        for the period February - May 2014, as follows: One week STEP Foundational (Basic) Program Week of February 10-14 Week of March 24-28 Week of May 19-23
                     
                     
                     Two week STEP Advanced Program (prerequisite: completion of the one-week Foundational Program) Ten Mondays, February - May
                     
                     
                     STEP 3-day Agile Development and Testing Boot Camp March 31, April 1, 2
                     
                     
                     All of these programs will be held on the University of Memphis campus.
                     
                     For details and enrollment forms please visit step.memphis.edu click "Research-Based Certifications in Systems Testing" for the Foundational and
                        Advanced Programs or click "Agile Development and Testing Boot Camp".
                     
                     
                     Please address questions to:
                     
                     Dr. Mark Gillenson 901-678-5607 Mark.Gillenson@memphis.edu
                     
                     or
                     
                     Dr. Robin Poston 901-678-5739 rposton@memphis.edu
                     
                     Dr. Jong Seok Lee joins the bit department
                     
                     The department of Management Information Systems welcomed Dr. Jong Seok Lee as Assistant
                        Professor in the Fall 2013. He holds a Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration
                        from Georgia State University, a Master of Management Information Systems from the
                        University of Arizona, and a Bachelor of Business Administration from Soongsil University,
                        in South Korea.
                     
                     
                     Jong's research is centered on IT project management, and includes work on business
                        decision-making, project escalation, requirements management, risk management, and
                        software testing. He has published several papers in scholarly journals including
                        Journal of Management Information Systems, and in the proceedings of international
                        conferences including Academy of Management Meetings. In 2011, his paper entitled
                        "Theorizing in Design Science Research" received the Best Student Paper Award at the
                        International Conference on Design Science Research in Information Systems and Technology.
                     
                     
                     Jong was born and raised in South Korea and before his academic and research career,
                        he was employed as military intelligence agent at Defense Security Agency in South
                        Korea. In the US, he has lived in Tucson, AZ and Atlanta, GA, where he completed his
                        graduate education. When he is not busy with research, Jong enjoys outdoor activities,
                        such as football, baseball, and basketball – especially the Phoenix Suns.
                     
                     
                     We are excited to welcome him to Memphis and to our department and are wishing him
                        a good start into a successful career as a researcher and professor at the University
                        of Memphis!
                     
                     
                     Dr. Lian Yuanqiang to serve as Visiting Scholar at the MIS department
                     
                     We are delighted to welcome Dr. Lian Yuanqiang to serve as Visiting Scholar with our
                        department. He will be part of the BIT faculty from September 1, 2013 to September
                        1, 2014.
                     
                     
                     Lian is a mature scholar, who currently serves as an Associate Professor at Yangzhou
                        University in China, where he is also Director of the Department of Marketing and
                        e-Business. He will join the department with impressive research credentials including
                        designation as a Contributing Researcher of the China Society of Logistics and a Member
                        of the International Association for Chinese Management Research (IACMR).
                     
                     
                     His current research interests evolve around the topic of Supply Chain Alliance, e-Business,
                        as well as Information and Industrial Innovation Strategy.
                     
                     
                     The department is looking forward to a productive year of doing research with Lian!
                     
                     Dr. Fred Davis speaks at BIT Colloquium on NeuroIS
                     
                     On February 15, Guest speaker Dr. Fred Davis spoke at the BIT department's weekly
                        Colloquium. His talk invited not only faculty and students from the BIT department,
                        but also faculty from other departments of the College of Business and Economics. Dr. Davis' presented on the emerging topic of Neuroscience in IS. He discussed a number
                        of neuro- physiological tools, such as eye-tracking and neuroimaging (EEG) and FMRI
                        in IS research and pointed out research topics that may be explored. Together with Angelika Dimoka and Paul A. Pavlou, Dr. Davis published an introductory
                        article on using cognitive neuroscience in Information Systems Research in 2011.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Davis is Distinguished Professor and David D. Glass Chair in Information Systems
                        at the Sam M. Walton College of Business at the University of Arkansas and is listed
                        in ISI HighlyCited.com. He is Senior Editor on Information Systems Research.
                     
                     
                     As the creator of the Technology Acceptance Model, Fred Davis is one of the most published
                        and top cited MIS scholars in the information systems research field with over 25,000
                        citations on Google Scholar. Dr. Davis' 1989 publication in MISQ has maintained the
                        title of most cited article in MIS Quarterly since 1984.
                     
                     
                     The BIT Department was delighted to have had the opportunity to host a talk with such
                        an accomplished scholar and is looking forward to welcome him again in the future.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Dr. Ling Xue joins BIT faculty
                     
                     The department of Management Information Systems welcomed Dr. Ling Xue as a tenure
                        track Assistant Professor starting in the Fall 2012. He will teach MIS 3775 in Database
                        and Information Management, as well as MIS 2770 in Information Technology Infrastructure.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Ling XueLing Xue received his PhD in MIS at UT Austin, he previously served as
                        an Assistant Professor at the Kania School of Management at the University of Scranton.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Dr. Xue has multiple streams of research. His primary research focus is on the governance
                        of IT and the impact of IT on business performance and organizational scope. He has
                        been studying how environmental uncertainty influences organizations' choices of IT
                        governance patterns and the impact of IT on value generation. His second research
                        interest is in electronic commerce, such as online consumer community and behavioral
                        targeting in online advertising. His third stream of research is on information asymmetry
                        in supply chain management. In addition, he has also been actively studying the management
                        of information security.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Xue will contribute to the BIT department by providing quality research and introducing
                        more people to Econometrics-style research which he has gained significant expertise
                        in during his career. He enjoys interdisciplinary research and would like to encourage
                        collaboration with faculty and students from other related fields at the university
                        in order to diversify research and make it more complete. The department of Management
                        Information Systems is especially proud to announce Dr. Xue's very recent publication
                        in the Academy of Management Journal. In addition he has published in the top two
                        MIS journals: MIS Quarterly and Information Systems Research.
                     
                     
                     In the past, Dr. Xue has published a number of articles together with his wife, Xia
                        Zhao, who is a researcher in MIS at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro.
                        Besides research, Dr. Xue enjoys watching and playing different sports. In his free
                        time, which he does not have much of, he likes to play soccer and ping pong. He is
                        the proud father of a new baby daughter. We are happy to welcome the entire Ling Xue
                        Family to our Memphis community!
                     
                     
                     Dr. Elena Karahanna visits the MIS Colloquium as a special guest speaker
                     
                     Nov 9, 2012
                     
                     Dr. Elena Karahanna was a special guest speaker at the November 9th 2012 BIT Department
                        Colloquium. Professor Karahanna discussed her current research: "Understanding the
                        Interplay of Habits and Organizational Routines in Telehealth Implementations". In
                        addition, she met with the BIT faculty and conducted a PhD student seminar.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Dr. Chen Zhang and Dr. Elena Karahanna at the BIT Colloquium
                     
                     Dr. Karahanna is the L. Edmund Rast Professor of Business in the MIS Department of
                        the Terry College of Business at the University of Georgia. Karahanna has also held
                        visiting appointments in Hong Kong, Australia, Singapore, and Italy and was on the
                        faculty at the University of Cyprus and at Florida State University. Elena is also
                        a Senior Consultant with Cutter Consortium's Business-IT Strategies practice. Her
                        research specialties include HealthCare IT, Information Systems Leadership, Technology
                        Acceptance and Resistance, and cross-cultural issues. Her research has been published
                        in leading scholarly journals (e.g., Management Science, MIS Quarterly, Information
                        Systems Research) as well as in practitioner journals (e.g., MIS Quarterly Executive,
                        Cutter Benchmark Review, Business Horizons). Dr. Karahanna currently serves as Senior
                        Editor of Information Systems Research and has served as senior editor at MIS Quarterly
                        and the Journal of AIS and on the editorial boards of IEEE Transactions on Engineering
                        Management, and the European Journal of Information Systems.
                     
                     
                     The BIT Department Colloquium Series brings the BIT team (faculty and PhD students)
                        together to learn and support each other as they engage in research. Guests are always
                        invited to sit in any of the Friday (10:30 AM) Colloquium and meet our MIS faculty
                        and PhD students. In addition to presentation of our faculty's current research, high
                        profile speakers are brought in every semester such as Dr. Ritu Agarwal, Editor-in-Chief
                        of Information System Research, and Dr. Detmar Straub, Editor-in-Chef of MIS Quarterly,
                        the two top journals in the MIS field.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        News
                        
                           
                              
                              Spotlights
                              Recognitions
                              Publications
                              Newsletter
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              BIT News
                              Publications, recognitions and spotlights about faculty and students of the BIT department.
                           
                           
                              BIT Events
                              Find out what's happening at the department and visit our weekly colloquium.
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us!
                           
                           
                              Return to FCBE
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/14/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/bitm/news/spotlights.php
