http://www.memphis.edu/bitm/news/recognitions.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Fogelman College - Department of Business Information and Technology
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        BIT
                        Programs
                        Faculty
                        Research
                        Admissions
                        Current Students
                        FCBE
                     
                     
                        
                           News
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Spotlights
                                 Recognitions
                                 Publications
                                 Newsletter
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	BIT
                              	
                        
                              	News
                              	
                        Recognitions 
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Recognitions
                     
                     Dr. Simon invited to the National CyberWatch Center's curriculum standards panel
                     
                     October 2016
                     
                     Dr. Judy Simon, professor in the Department of Business Information and Technology,
                        was recently named as a member of the National CyberWatch Center's curriculum standards
                        panel. The panelists are representatives from various universities and corporate communities.
                        The National CyberWatch Center is a consortium of higher education institutions, public
                        and private schools, businesses, and government agencies focused on collaborative
                        efforts to advance cybersecurity education and strengthen the national cybersecurity
                        workforce.
                     
                     
                     The current project, funded by a grant from the National Science Foundation, will
                        extend the initial work of the Curriculum Task Force by applying psychometrically-valid
                        instructional design techniques to develop a model learning taxonomy of declarative,
                        procedural, and situational knowledge and corresponding skills and abilities. The
                        model is intended to provide guidance toward standardization of cybersecurity curricula
                        and to facilitate rapid prototyping, development and dissemination of adaptive, accelerated
                        learning systems that substantially improve cybersecurity workforce capability maturity.
                        Dr. Simon has served as co-director of the University of Memphis Center for Information
                        Assurance from its inception and she has been active in efforts that have led to the
                        University's certificates in Cyber Defense and Cyber Education.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Poston named the AIS representative to the NCWIT leadership team
                     
                     October 2016
                     
                     Dr. Robin Poston, professor and chair of the department of Business Information and
                        Technology, was recently named as the Association for Information Systems (AIS) representative
                        of the National Center for Women and Information Technology (NCWIT) leadership team.
                        This role was formerly held by past AIS President Jane Fedorowicz.
                     
                     
                     The AIS' mission is to serve society in the advancement of knowledge and excellence
                        in the study and profession of information systems. As part of this mission, AIS works
                        with the NCWIT Leadership Team to increase women's participation in computing and
                        technology. NCWIT equips leaders with resources for taking action in recruiting, retaining,
                        and advancing women from K–12 and higher education through industry and entrepreneurial
                        careers. Current initiatives include: making impacts on K-12 with representation at
                        the White House, supporting Black Girls & Women in Technology Roundtable events, promoting
                        college member recruitment for the Aspirations in Computing Community, encouraging
                        Corporate Technology Inclusion Pledges, supporting Hopper Tracy Camp, and organizing
                        workshops and summits.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Bill Kettinger earns prolific publisher status
                     
                     August 2016
                     
                     Dr. Bill Kettinger, FedEx Chair of Excellence and professor in the BIT department,
                        has had five articles published in the Association of Information Systems' (AIS) top
                        six journals for Management Information Systems (MIS) between 2013 – 2015. These six
                        top journals were selected by AIS's senior scholars as representing the best in the
                        MIS field. The AIS is the leading global professional association of information systems
                        scholars.
                     
                     
                     Furthermore, Dr. Kettinger was the 12th most prolific MIS publisher in the world during
                        2013 – 2015. He ranked 26th, with 20 articles published, in the same category when
                        the time window was extended to the past 25 years. These achievements demonstrate
                        the success the Department of Business Information and Technology (BIT) strives for
                        at the University of Memphis, as well as the impact it hopes to have on the field
                        of MIS.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Kettinger works tirelessly for the MIS field and he has served as editor for numerous
                        top journals. He has more than 100 publications, including four books, and he has
                        worked with industry partners over the last 30 years in both the public and private
                        sectors. Dr. Kettinger is a popular teacher and has led dozens of Ph.D. dissertations
                        and has served on many committees throughout the years.
                     
                     
                     " It is a privilege to work with Dr. Bill Kettinger. He is a true scholar and colleague
                           who tirelessly works to help our department and college move forward, and to provide
                           the best educational experience possible for all of our students and junior faculty ," said Dr. Robin Poston, interim chair of the Department of Business Information
                        & Technology.
                     
                     
                     The Fogelman College leads Tennessee schools in MIS publications
                     
                     August 2016
                     
                     Fogelman College of Business and Economics is very pleased to announce that The University
                        of Memphis is the only school in the state of Tennessee to make the list of top global
                        research schools for Management Information Systems. Citing the number of publications
                        by UofM faculty the top six journals from 2011 –2015, the rankings placed Fogelman
                        College's Department of Business Information & Technology as 47th on a competitive
                        list that included schools from 17 different countries. The University of Memphis
                        tied in ranking with Case Western Reserve, George Mason, University of Michigan, Nanyang
                        Technological University, Yonsei University, and the University of Auckland.
                     
                     
                     The rankings were calculated based on the latest Association of Information Systems
                        (AIS) Research Ranking Service announced on June 15, 2016. The rankings are based
                        on publications in the top journals as selected by the senior scholars of the AIS,
                        which is the leading global professional association of Information Systems scholars.
                     
                     
                     BIT Student Earned Honorable Mention at the Teradata Challenge
                     
                     June 2016
                     
                     Department of BIT student and AMIS member, Deidre Chewning, entered the 2016 Teradata
                        University Network Data Challenge and was one of eight people selected to receive
                        the Honorable Mention award. This award also included a scholarship to attend the
                        conference in Atlanta. Deidre joins other award winners from universities such as
                        Mississippi State, North Carolina State, Purdue, University of South Carolina, and
                        Carnegie Mellon.
                     
                     
                     Deidre became aware of the Teradata University Network Data Challenge through her
                        Business Intelligence course taught by Dr. Chen Zhang. Dr. Zhang encouraged students
                        to participate in the challenge as a course assignment. Deidre was provided data from
                        Hire Heroes, which is an organization that helps military veterans gain employment
                        once they leave the Armed Services. Using their data, Deidre was able to provide a
                        set of recommendations to help the nonprofit improve their programs in a way that
                        will increase positive outcomes. Deidre will be attending the conference with additional
                        funding support from the BIT Neumann Travelers Program, which covers up to $1,000
                        for students sharing their work at conferences and other events.
                     
                     
                     " I'm very proud of Deidre's accomplishment in Teradata University Network's second
                           annual data challenge competition ," said Dr. Chen Zhang, associate professor of Business Information and Technology.
                        " I believe her success will help to inspire other students interested in business intelligence
                           and analytics ."
                     
                     
                     Fogelman College Department of Business Information and Technology Receives Recognition
                        for Scholarly PhD Program Education
                     
                     
                     October 2015
                     
                     University of Memphis was as 25th in the Top 25 Doctoral Programs in Business 2015. 
                     
                     The results are out for the Grad School Hub 2015 Top Business PhD Programs, and the
                        Fogelman College ranked No. 25 among public and private institutions. The Grad School
                        Hub ranks education programs by identifying all the universities in the nation that
                        1) offer Ph.Ds in business, and 2) have an admissions rate of 50% or below, then filter
                        the results by scoring programs based on: Carnegie Classification which measures the
                        faculty's "research activity"; Faculty Citations which measures the rank of "highly
                        cited" researchers as a strong indication of faculty's productivity, quality, and
                        reputation; Specialization Options measured as the number of specialties offered;
                        and Tuition. The Grad School Hub claimed, "We crunched the numbers and gave each school
                        a total score out of 200. Not even Harvard (the #1 pick) earned a perfect score, and
                        that is to be expected. .... These 25 universities blow past the competition when
                        it comes to Ph.D. business programs that are challenging, effective, engaging, and
                        considerately priced." In describing the FCBE programs, the site states, "People who
                        want to teach business at the collegiate level or secure specialized advanced positions
                        in certain industries (management information technology, for example) would do well
                        to pursue a doctorate in business administration – and the University of Memphis can
                        help. The balanced program aims to teach students both quantitative and qualitative
                        skills in the field, as well as help them grow comfortable with the research process."
                        For more details, see: http://www.gradschoolhub.com/best/doctoral-programs-in-business /
                     
                     
                     UOFM REDESIGNATED AS NATIONAL CENTER OF ACADEMIC EXCELLENCE IN CYBER DEFENSE RESEARCH
                     
                     June 2015
                     
                     Dr. Judith C. Simon, professor of Management Information Systems and co-director of
                        the Center for Information Assurance, accepted the certificate of the U. S. Department
                        of Homeland Security's selection to renew the U of M's designation as the National
                        Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Research (CAE-R). The designation is
                        renewed through academic year 2021.
                     
                     
                     The Center for Information Assurance was established at the University in 2004 through
                        the collaboration of the Computer Science, Management Information Systems, Electrical
                        Engineering, and Criminology and Criminal Justice departments. The Center is active
                        in the advancement of Information Assurance education on campus, focusing on issues
                        that threaten our nation's critical infrastructure and working toward providing solutions
                        that enhance both local and national cyber security efforts. At the forefront of The
                        Center are research, education, and outreach on Information Assurance in the region.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Simon accepted the certification at the 19th Annual Colloquium for Information
                        Systems Security Education (CISSE) earlier this month in Las Vegas, NV.
                     
                     
                     Judy Simon Receives George Johnson Fellow Award 
                     
                     May 2015
                     
                     Dr. Judy Simon, professor of Business Information and Technology, won the George Johnson
                        Fellow Award in the "Service" category. She received this award for serving as one
                        of two directors of the University of Memphis Center for Information Assurance, her
                        role on the advisory board of the Complete Professional Program, and being champion
                        of the University's Annual Giving Campaign. Dr. Simon has a long-established reputation
                        as a dedicated and responsible faculty member who will always do more than her share
                        to help the department and college, who will do what is required to complete the task
                        or close the loop, even when that goes beyond the bounds of expectations.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Dr. Judy Simon (right) receiving the George Johnson Fellow Award for Service from
                        Dean Rajiv Grover
                     
                     
                     Dean Grover presented each of these George Johnson Fellow Awards, which recognizes
                        outstanding faculty contributions in the areas of research, teaching, and service.
                        The award included a commemorative plaque and a $10,000 stipend.
                     
                     
                     Judy Simon Receives MIS Outstanding Teaching Award
                     
                     May 2015
                     
                     Dr. Judy Simon, professor of Business Information and Technology, won the MIS Outstanding
                        Teaching Award for her dedication to providing significant value to students. For
                        the past several years, she has taught courses of vital importance to the success
                        of graduates as they embark on careers in Information Systems, Information Assurance,
                        and IT Management. 
                     
                     
                     Her courses include the undergraduate MIS capstone course that focuses on IT strategy
                        and a wide range of other IT topic s important to be aware of and to understand the
                        managerial issues. Examples of topics of focus in recent years include BYOD, Internet
                        of Things, insider threats to security, 3D printing, social media privacy issues,
                        and many more. The topics change each year to fit the current business IT issues. 
                     
                     
                     Dr. Simon also teaches graduate courses required for students pursuing a Business
                        Information Assurance Certificate. One course focuses on the overall managerial topics
                        related to information security and privacy. The second course's emphasis is on cyber
                        ethics, drawing students into lively discussions of correct behavior from legal, cultural,
                        and moral perspectives. 
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Brian Janz receives 2014 Schulze Award
                     
                     March 2015
                     
                     Dr. Brian Janz, professor of MIS, was recently awarded the 2014 Schulze Award for
                        his article entitled "After the Big Idea: Entrepreneurial Success through High Performance
                        Start-Up Teams." His article was published in conjunction with the Entrepreneurship
                        and Innovation Exchange (EIX). EIX is an open-access platform for students, faculty,
                        and practitioners of entrepreneurship. Its goal is to spotlight innovations, new ideas,
                        and important research more quickly than traditional scholarly journals and to subject
                        them to the rigors of peer review and the marketplace sooner.
                     
                     
                     The Schulze Award recognizes the quality and influence Dr. Janz has made to the EIX
                        and to the study and practice of entrepreneurship. In gratitude of his contribution,
                        an academic scholarship of $1,500 will be donated by the Richard Schulze Foundation*
                        to the Fogelman College of Business and Economics per Dr. Janz's request.
                     
                     
                     This scholarship is intended to support students interested in entrepreneurship, but
                        the selection of the students to receive the benefits of this scholarship is open
                        to all.
                     
                     
                     To read Dr. Janz's full article, please click here.
                     
                     Chen Zhang awarded the George Johnson Professorship
                     
                     May 2014
                     
                     Chen Zhang, Assistant Professor of MIS, was recently awarded the George Johnson Professorship.
                        This award recognizes faculty members who have demonstrated outstanding contributions
                        in achieving the college's mission in research, teaching and service. The professorship
                        carries a five-year appointment and an annual stipend of $10,000.
                     
                     
                     "I enjoy challenges. As an Assistant Professor, and as a busy mom, I have found it
                        challenging but exciting to do my very best in the classroom, publish in the top tier
                        journals, serve the college and my field. This award is a great honor and wonderful
                        motivation for me to keep addressing new challenges. I am very thankful to Mr. Johnson
                        and the college for their efforts in moving this institution forward", said Dr. Zhang.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Zhang has published three articles in the elite journal Information Systems Research,
                        in the past five years. This effort has helped move the MIS Department into the top
                        50 MIS departments in the world publishing in the top quality AIS-6 journals. In addition,
                        Dr. Zhang is an award-winning teacher and advisor to PhD students. She has also actively
                        participated in numerous leadership and service roles, such as co-chairing the MIS
                        Department's Research Colloquium and serving as a member of the College Strategic
                        Planning Initiative.
                     
                     
                     Robin Poston awarded Ron Hart Emerging Leader Professorship
                     
                     February 2015
                     
                     Robin Poston, Associate Professor and Ph.D. Coordinator of MIS, was recently awarded
                        the Ron Hart Emerging Leader Professorship. This award recognizes faculty members
                        who have demonstrated leadership skills and success in advancing programs within Fogelman
                        College. The professorship carries a five-year appointment and an annual stipend of
                        $5,000.
                     
                     
                     "This professorship encourages those in higher education to keep moving forward and
                        challenging the status quo," said Dr. Poston. "I feel lucky to work at an institution
                        that is dedicated to improving the quality of education we provide, and I am honored
                        to be recognized for my contributions to this effort."
                     
                     
                     Dr. Poston has actively participated in many leadership roles, such as chairing the
                        MBA Assessments Group and leading the College Strategic Planning Initiative. Dr. Poston
                        is also working to put together a program called Vision 20/20. In various capacities,
                        Dr. Poston is focused on encouraging Ph.D. students to think rigorously while addressing
                        relevant business problems, to connect Project Management Institute mentors with Fogelman
                        students and to work with industry and government in research programs to expand software
                        capabilities.
                     
                     
                     Bill Kettinger chairs SIM/MISQE Workshop on "Business Payoff of Cloud Services" in
                        Milan, Italy
                     
                     
                     December 2013
                     
                     Bill Kettinger served as a program chair for the 2013 SIM/MISQE Academic Workshop
                        on "Business Payoff of Cloud Services" in Milan, Italy on December 14, 2013 at Universita
                        Bocconi - Milan, Italy. The intent of the SIM - Society for Information Management - and MIS Quarterly Executive
                        Academic Workshop was to examine the strategic business opportunities and management
                        challenges resulting from the tremendous growth in cloud based services. Authors were
                        encouraged to submit in-depth case and/or field studies that analyzed key business
                        practices offering insights on what has proven to work. This workshop is a prelude
                        to a MISQ Executive special issue on the same topic for which Dr. Kettinger is co-editor.
                     
                     
                     Judy Simon receives approval for National Science Foundation (NSF) grant
                     
                     September 2013
                     
                     Dr. Judy Simon, Professor of Management Information Systems and Co-Director of the
                        Center for Information Assurance, has been awarded a two-year National Science Foundation
                        (NSF) grant. This grant is in collaboration with investigators at Jackson State Community
                        College and Tennessee Technical University. Its long-term goal is to increase the
                        number of women employed in cybersecurity careers by providing them with summer workshops
                        containing interesting and engaging activities that are related to cybersecurity career
                        topics. This grant gives Dr. Simon two grants within the same year, as she also received
                        a Department of Defense (DoD) grant for the 2013-2014 academic year. Dr. Simon has
                        received numerous DoD grants in previous years, either to provide scholarships for
                        students interested in information assurance careers or to provide content that faculty
                        can use to cover specific information assurance topics that are relevant for their
                        courses.
                     
                     
                     Bill Kettinger mentor at 'PhD project' and AMCIS Doctoral Consortium
                     
                     August 2013
                     
                     Bill Kettinger was an invited presenter at the 'The PhD Project Information Systems
                        Doctoral Students Association Conference', in Chicago August 13-14 . The PhD Project's
                        mission is to increase the diversity of corporate America by increasing the diversity
                        of business school faculty. The PhD Program attempts to attract African-Americans,
                        Hispanic-Americans and Native Americans to business Ph.D. programs, and provide a
                        network of peer support on their journey to becoming professors. Dr. Kettinger discussed
                        hiring strategies with participants and conducted mock interviews with a select group
                        of meeting participants. Dr. Kettinger was also invited to be a mentor and presenter
                        at the 2013 AMCIS Doctoral Consortium on August 15 in Chicago. The AMCIS Doctoral
                        Consortium seeks to help Information Systems doctoral students in the middle of later
                        part of their doctoral studies to develop an effective career plan based on their
                        personal and professional goals. Dr. Kettinger presented on "Getting a Job as an MIS
                        Professor."
                     
                     
                     Judy Brown and Brian Janz win George Johnson Awards
                     
                     August 2013
                     
                     Two MIS faculty members were the inaugural recipients of the George Johnson Fellowship
                        Awards program at the fall faculty meeting. These fellowships, supported by FCBE alumnus
                        George Johnson, are awarded to faculty members each year for their significant contributions
                        in the areas of research, teaching or service.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Brian Janz, Professor of Management and Information Systems, was awarded the George
                        Johnson Teaching Fellow. Dr. Judy Brown, Management Information Systems Professor,
                        was awarded the George Johnson Service Fellow.
                     
                     
                     Bill Kettinger, invited editor at ECIS and ICMB
                     
                     June 2013
                     
                     Bill Kettinger was an invited speaker at the 21st European Conference on Information
                        Systems in Utrecht, Netherlands. Bill presented on June 8 at the 'Meet the Journal
                        Editors Panel' where he represented both MIS Quarterly and MIS Executive as Senior
                        Editor. This session provided attendees with an opportunity to meet editors from the
                        leading MIS journals, who shared key points about their respective journals. Advice
                        was given to assist researchers targeting top ranked journals . Tips were also given
                        to PhD students and junior faculty about how to succeed in the academic publication
                        game. Bill also was an invited speaker at the 'Meet-the-Editor Session' at the 12th
                        International Conference on Mobile Business (ICMB 2013) in Berlin, Germany. Representing
                        MISQ and MISQ Executive, he spoke on June 12th presenting the talk, "What could m-commerce
                        and m-business research contribute to IS research?"
                     
                     
                     Brian Janz and John Amis awarded Best Paper
                     
                     June 2013
                     
                     The Academy of Management's Organizational Design and Change Division recently announced
                        that Fogelman College of Business and Economic faculty members, John Amis and Brian
                        Janz, and Department of Management doctoral graduates, Maria Gondo and James Vardaman,
                        have won this year's Best Paper award. Their paper is titled "The Paradox of Fit:
                        How Perceptions of Fit Impede Organizational Change." The awards will be distributed
                        this summer at the Academy of Management's annual meeting in Orlando, Florida.
                     
                     
                     Jasbir Dhaliwal delivers key note address
                     
                     May 2013
                     
                     Associate Dean, Dr. Jasbir Dhaliwal, was invited to present the keynote address at
                        a software quality and testing conference at Ben Gurion University in Israel on May
                        28th, 2013. The conference was sponsored by Intel Inc. and the Israeli Testing and
                        Certification Board. Ben Gurion University's departments of information system engineering
                        and industrial engineering management were also joint organizers. The keynote was
                        entitled "Leveraging Academic-industry Collaboration for Software Testing Innovations
                        and Theory Building" and showcased the research successes of the Fogelman College's
                        Systems Testing Excellence Program.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Jasbir DhaliwalOn the visit, Dr. Dhaliwal also presented an invited lecture to
                        students, faculty, researchers and information technology practitioners at the Hebrew
                        University of Jerusalem on May 30th, 2013. This talk was titled "The Fuzzy ART of
                        the SCIENCE of Software Testing". It focused on new information systems perspectives
                        to theory building for software testing and explored the historical evolution of testing
                        best practices in industry as a means of understanding underlying theoretical notions.
                        The audience was also challenged to think innovatively about the interplay between
                        arts and science in software testing and the nature of "theory" that was emerging
                        from recent software testing research studies at the University of Memphis.
                     
                     
                     Judy Simon awarded DOD grant for 6th time
                     
                     May 2013
                     
                     Dr. Judy Simon has received notice of approval for a federal grant for 2013-2014 to
                        be funded by the United States Department of Defense (DoD). This is the sixth DoD
                        grant Dr. Simon has been awarded since 2007. These grants are normally approved for
                        either of two purposes: (1) capacity building grants to increase awareness and knowledge
                        regarding Information Assurance topics (e.g., security and privacy) among students
                        and/or faculty or (2) scholarships to fund students' educational expenses in collegiate
                        majors that might qualify them to be hired by DoD's National Security Agency in the
                        future. These grants are highly competitive among all universities that have received
                        the designation by DoD as a Center of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance
                        Education (CAEIAE). Dr. Simon is co-director of the University of Memphis Center for
                        Information Assurance, which manages all University of Memphis activities related
                        to this designation.
                     
                     
                     UofM MIS in good company - Top 50
                     
                     May 2013
                     
                     As part of the Association of Information Systems (AIS) sponsored IS Job Index, the
                        top 50 MIS programs nationally were identified. The University of Memphis MIS Department
                        was listed among these top tier programs. Criteria considered in the selection: U.S.
                        schools that have a substantial IS centric major at the undergraduate or graduate
                        level and have shown excellence in one or more of (a) U.S. News and World Report rankings,
                        (b) programs/faculty ranked on the AIS basket of journals, and (c) AIS student chapters.
                     
                     
                     Bill Kettinger named to national advisory council
                     
                     May 2013
                     
                     Bill Kettinger was named to national advisory council of the IS Job Index. The IS
                        Job Index is a joint five year project between the Association for Information Systems
                        and the Institute for Business and Information Technology at Temple University to
                        produce reliable national level data on placement, type of jobs, satisfaction, and
                        on related factors such as career services, knowledge level, preparedness, and search
                        strategies. The project will produce an annual IS job index report, and is intended
                        to become the first systematic national assessment of the IS job market.
                     
                     
                     This national advisory council will act as a steering committee for the IS job index
                        and provide input on future research.
                     
                     
                     http://ibit.temple.edu/isjobindex
                     
                     Dr. Brian Janz wins Best Paper Award
                     
                     April 2013
                     
                     Dr. Brian Janz was awarded the Best Overall Paper Award which was presented at the
                        Western Academy of Management Annual Conference in Sante Fe, New Mexico in March 2013.
                        This paper discusses organizational change among new software development teams.
                     
                     
                     Gondo, M., Amis, J.M., Janz, B., & Varadaman, J. Elaborating Change: The (Re)Production
                        of a Legitimate Practice. Paper presented at the Western Academy of Management Annual
                        Meeting, Sante Fe, NM, March, 2013. Winner, Best Overall Paper Award.
                     
                     
                     Bill Kettinger awarded Fulbright Visiting Professorship in Austria
                     
                     March 2013
                     
                     Bill Kettinger, FedEx Chair of Excellence in MIS, has been awarded a Fulbright Visiting
                        Professorship for the period from April to July 2013. The Fulbright Program is the
                        flagship international educational exchange program sponsored by the U.S. government
                        and is designed to "increase mutual understanding between the people of the United
                        States and the people of other countries." With this goal as a starting point, the
                        Fulbright Program has provided participants—chosen for their academic merit and leadership
                        potential — with the opportunity to study, teach and conduct research, exchange ideas
                        and contribute to finding solutions to shared international concerns.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Kettinger's primary activities for the Fulbright appointment will be to significantly
                        advance a continuing line of research with colleague Dr. Tina Wakolbinger, Professor
                        of Supply Chain at the Vienna University of Economics and Business. The title of the
                        research project is: "From Cradle to Grave: Using Information Embedded in Products
                        to Transform Closed Loop Supply Chains." He will also present seminars and lectures
                        to masters and PhD students at the Vienna University of Economics and Business and
                        elsewhere in Europe. Dr. Lloyd Brooks, MIS Department Chair, reports, "Dr. Kettinger
                        is only the second professor in the Department of MIS to be awarded a Fulbright Visiting
                        Professorship, so this is a big and rare honor for Dr. Kettinger and the University
                        of Memphis."
                     
                     
                     Bill Kettinger appointed Senior Editor of MIS Quarterly
                     
                     March 2013
                     
                     Dr. Bill Kettinger, FedEx Chair of Excellence in Management Information Systems, recently
                        accepted an appointment as Senior Editor of MIS Quarterly after previously serving
                        as Associate Editor. In addition, he recently completed a 4-year term as Associate
                        Editor of Information Systems Research (ISR). These two journals are the two highest
                        ranked academic journals in the management information systems field. MIS Quarterly is consistently ranked among the elite business school journals in terms
                        of ISI Impact. The editorial objective of the MIS Quarterly is the enhancement and
                        communication of knowledge concerning the development of IT-based services, the management
                        of IT resources, and the use, impact and economics of IT with managerial, organizational
                        and societal implications.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Kettinger will continue serving as Senior Editor on MISQ Executive, the top ranked
                        practitioner oriented academic journal in MIS. "We are extremely proud of Dr. Kettinger,"
                        said Lloyd Brooks, MIS Department Chair at FCBE. "It is a rare honor to have a member
                        of the faculty appointed as a senior editor of the two most highly ranked journals
                        in the MIS field."
                     
                     
                     Mar. 2013 Lloyd Brooks and Jasbir Dhaliwal named to Professorships for Exemplary Leadership
                     
                     
                     Dr. Lloyd Brooks, MIS Department Chair, and Dr. Jasbir Dhaliwal, MIS Professor and
                        Associate Dean, have both been awarded Professorships for Exemplary Leadership. This
                        honor is in recognition for the leadership both have demonstrated over the years in
                        setting the MIS Department and College on their positive trajectory. These Professorship
                        carry a monetary amount of $10,000/year for 5 years. Three donors for these professorships
                        are Morgan Morton, Larry Papasan and Michael Cook. Feb. 2013 Dr. Jasbir Dhaliwal included in the Class of 2013 Principal Investigator Millionaires
                        and Dr. Robin Poston selected as First Time Principal Investigator
                     
                     
                     Dr. Jasbir Dhaliwal, Associate Dean and Professor of MIS, will be one of only 9 people
                        in the University to be included in the Class of 2013 Principal Investigator Millionaires
                        with the MIS department listed as one of only nine in the University to be included
                        in this classification. A funded grant with a $1 million or higher award is required
                        to achieve this designation. Dr. Dhaliwal's dedicated effort lead to secure this grant
                        and bring recognition to the department and the Fogelman College as well as to himself.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Robin Poston, Associate professor of MIS, was given recognition as one of only
                        three members of the Fogelman College faculty to become a First Time Principal Investigator.
                        As a principal investigator, Dr. Poston will carry responsibility for the direction
                        and completion of the research project under her lead.
                     
                     
                     Jasbir and Robin will be honored during the University of Memphis Research Celebration
                        and PI/Author Reception in the University Center (Ballroom C) at 2:30 p.m. on February
                        26 2013.
                     
                     
                     Dec. 2012 Dr. Kettinger mentors at ICIS Junior Faculty Consortium
                     
                     Dr. Bill Kettinger served as a senior faculty mentor at the Junior faculty Consortium
                        at the 2012 International Conference on Information Systems (ICIS) on December 16th
                        in Orlando, Florida.
                     
                     
                     The ICIS Junior Faculty Consortium is an all day event that consists of panels, discussions,
                        role-playing, and other interactive sessions built around issues related to becoming
                        a successful member of the professoriate. Each activity was facilitated by a select
                        group of 10 highly-successful IS faculty from universities around the world. Forty
                        promising junior faculty from research universities were selected to participate.
                     
                     
                     Topics covered include: research strategies, publishing issues, building a network
                        of colleagues, teaching strategies and issues, tenure pitfalls and experiences, time
                        management, collegiality and academic norms, and work-life balance.
                     
                     
                     Dec. 2012 Dr. Stafford appointed Associate Editor at I&M
                     
                     
                     Dr. Thomas F. Stafford has accepted an offer to serve as Associate Editor for the
                        Information and Management journal starting January 2013.
                     
                     
                     Dec. 2012 MIS Professor receives Department of Defense Grant
                     
                     
                     Dr. Judy Simon, Professor of Management Information Systems, has been awarded a 2012-2013
                        Department of Defense grant titled "Development of DOD IASP Scholarship." IASP represents
                        their Information Assurance Scholarship Program.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Simon is the Principal Investigator for this funded grant project as part of her
                        role as Co-Director of the University's Center for Information Assurance (CfIA). She
                        will serve as Point of Contact between student recipients and representatives of the
                        Department of Defense and National Security Agency. These scholarships are highly
                        competitive, nationwide scholarships among all universities that have the designation
                        from the Department of Homeland Security as a Center of Academic Excellence in Information
                        Assurance Education. Funding for tuition, books, and supplies, as well as a substantial
                        stipend for living costs, is provided to students who are selected by the National
                        Security Agency for this scholarship. Two students will receive scholarships this year under the terms of the grant. Both
                        of the selected students will be Fogelman College of Business and Economics students.
                     
                     
                     Nov. 2012 Dr. Robin Poston recognized as Outstanding Associate Editor at the 2012
                        Decision Sciences Journal editorial team reception
                     
                     
                     The Decision Sciences Journal (DSJ) is a quarterly, professional journal that uses
                        the latest computer technology, mathematical and statistical techniques, and behavioral
                        science. It is an A+ journal for the Fogelman College and incorporates research read
                        by faculty and students as well as corporate personnel and consultants from multi-disciplinary
                        functional areas of business. Dr. Poston was recognized by the editorial team for
                        her excellent services to the journal and an announcement of her recognition will
                        appear on the journal's website as well as printed in an upcoming issue.
                     
                     
                     June 2012 Dr. Kettinger receives recognition for published article
                     
                     Dr. Bill Kettinger, Professor and FedEx Chair of Excellence at Fogelman College, has
                        been recognized for his academic contributions in the field of Management Information
                        Systems. His paper, "The Successful Implementation of Customer Relationship Management
                        (CRM) System Projects," has been designated as the best article of 2011 by a prestigious
                        academic journal. The article was published in DATABASE, an Association of Computer
                        Machinery (ACM) journal. Since its recognition as best article of 2011, Dr. Kettinger's
                        paper has been subsequently nominated to compete in the annual Association of Information
                        Systems (AIS) best paper competition. The article was co-authored with Varun Grover
                        (Clemson), Khawaja Saeed (Wichita State) and Subo Guha (Computer Associates Inc.).
                     
                     
                     Dr. Kettinger's research interests range from Digital Business Strategy, IS Service
                        Quality, Strategic Information Management, IT-enabled Platform Organizations, IT-enabled
                        Control of Autonomous Professionals and Process Redesign.
                     
                     
                     Feb. 2012 Distinguished Teaching awarded to MIS faculty member
                     
                     The 2012 University Distinguished Teaching Award will be awarded to Dr. Thomas Meservy,
                        Assistant Professor of Management Information Systems, during the Faculty Convocation,
                        which will be held on April 20, 2012. The Award will be presented to the only four
                        recipients.
                     
                     
                     The Distinguished Teaching Award is funded and sponsored by the University of Memphis
                        Alumni Association. This award annually recognizes excellence in teaching at the undergraduate
                        and graduate levels. The selection process also includes assessment of the faculty
                        member by his or her students and administrative head. This is a big personal and
                        professional honor for Tom, but it is also a big honor for the Department of Management
                        Information Systems and the Fogelman College of Business and Economics.
                     
                     
                     Feb. 2012 University of Memphis MIS curriculum gains world-wide exposure
                     
                     In the Fall of 2010, the Fogelman College of Business and Economics' MIS Department
                        implemented a completely reengineered undergraduate curriculum based in part on the
                        Association for Information System's model MIS curriculum, and in the process became
                        one of the first MIS Departments in the world to offer the leading-edge curriculum.
                        One aspect that really sets the new curriculum apart from others is how it was developed:
                        the MIS department's faculty worked with local IT executives from their MIS Advisory
                        Council to insure that graduates from the new curriculum possess the skills needed
                        most by the business community. As a result of this collaboration, in addition to
                        courses in IT infrastructure, IT architectures, information management, and systems
                        development, the team went on to design a course in critical thinking and project
                        management that is now required for all undergraduate business students.
                     
                     
                     Nov. 2011 Dr. Kettinger editorial appointment at ISR extended
                     
                     Bill Kettinger, the FedEx Chair of Excellence in MIS, has been asked to extend his
                        three year appointment as Associate Editor of Information Systems Research (ISR).
                        Ritu Agarwal, Editor in Chief of ISR, announced on November 12, 2011 at the INFORMS
                        Annual Conference in Charlotte NC that Dr. Kettinger has accepted an extended term
                        as Associate Editor. Information Systems Research is a journal of INFORMS, the Institute
                        for Operations Research and the Management Sciences. Information Systems Research
                        is ranked as one of the top two journals in the information systems field, advancing
                        theory, research, and intellectual development focused on information systems in organizations,
                        the economy, and society.
                     
                     
                     In addition to his associate editorship at ISR, Professor Kettinger currently services
                        as Senior Editor (2010 - current) of Management Information Systems Quarterly Executive
                        (MISQE), the top ranked applied research journal in MIS. He also currently sits on
                        the editorial board of the Journal of the Association of Information Systems (JAIS)
                        (fourth ranked journal in MIS) and from 2007-2009 he served as an Associate Editor
                        of MIS Quarterly, the top ranked journal in MIS.
                     
                     
                     Nov. 2011 Dr. Poston named AE at EJIS
                     
                     Dr. Robin Poston, Associate Professor of MIS, has accepted an invitation from Richard
                        Baskerville, the Editor-in-Chief, to serve as an Associate Editor for the highly ranked
                        journal, the European Journal of Information Systems (EJIS), starting January 2012
                        for a three-year appointment. EJIS publishes research about the theory and practice
                        of information systems for a global audience. The journal publishes research articles
                        that provide a critical view on technology, development, implementation, strategy,
                        management, and policy. In addition to being a new AE at EJIS, Dr. Poston continues
                        to serve as AE for another highly ranked journal entitled Decision Sciences. An Associate
                        Editor (AE) provides service to the academic community, and engages in governing over
                        the process of reviewing some of the best reports of the latest research in the IS
                        field. An AE is responsible for organizing and managing referee panels for submissions
                        assigned by areas of interest.
                     
                     
                     Oct. 2011 Dr. Janz quoted in Computerworld article on lack of skills in IT grads
                     
                     An article titled "7 key skills new IT grads are lacking" published in Computerworld
                        on October 12, 2011 quotes Dr. Brian Janz, MIS professor at the University of Memphis's
                        Fogelman College of Business and Economics and associate director of the university's
                        FedEx Center for Supply Chain Management on the role of colleges in addressing the
                        problem of lack of skills in IT grads.
                     
                     
                     The article identifies seven crucial areas in which the new IT grads require more
                        coaching. These areas include among others an understanding of basic business functions,
                        experience with enterprise systems integration and Knowledge of emerging enterprise
                        technologies. The articles states "...The university [of Memphis] is in its second
                        year of following the IS 2010 model curriculum designed by the Association for Information
                        Systems (AIS) and the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), which calls for teaching
                        tech students both IT skills and professional skills such as communication and leadership.
                        The switch has brought more business studies into the MIS coursework..."
                     
                     
                     The article mentions Dr. Janz's quote "There are always going to be gaps that are
                        going to be very specific to the hiring organization, but we can make sure the foundation
                        is there...If we can give them the sound foundation, [businesses] can give them the
                        stuff specific to their organization."
                     
                     
                     Click here to read the full Computerworld article.
                     
                     Sept. 2011 Dr. Brian Janz moderates the Society for Information Management (SIM) strategy
                        series
                     
                     
                     Dr. Brian Janz moderates the Society for Information Management (SIM) Strategy Series
                        titled, "Unleashing the Power of IT for Innovation and Growth." The SIM Strategy Series
                        is an annual day-long event for Information Technology executives and their colleagues
                        (CFOs, CEOs, etc.).
                     
                     
                     June 2011 Dr. Stafford edits MISQ Special Issue
                     
                     Dr. Stafford is Special Editor of a MIS Quarterly Research Commentary section entitled:
                        Special Research Commentary Series on Advanced Methodological Thinking for Quantitative
                        Research. MIS Quarterly, June 2011, Vol. 35 Issue 2, pXV-XVI, 2p. The issue involves
                        a Special Research Commentary Series on Advanced Methodological Thinking for Quantitative
                        Research that is intended to become a citation classic with its series of discussions
                        on formative structural modeling and measurement validation.
                     
                     
                     Apr. 2011 Dr. Meservy secures MIS Advisory Council Outstanding Teacher Award
                     
                     The Advisory Council for the Department of Management Information Systems created
                        an outstanding teacher award this year to recognize creative and innovative teaching
                        in the department. The first awardee was Dr. Thomas Meservy, Assistant Professor.
                        The selection committee consisted of two department chairs and one student. Dr. Meservy
                        was recognized for his outstanding teaching as evidenced by student evaluations, leadership
                        with the online instructional program in the department and college, and creative
                        and innovative teaching style.
                     
                     
                     Apr. 2011 Dr. Kettinger's book recognized by Wall Street Journal
                     
                     A book published by Wiley Publising Company and written by MIS Professor and FedEx
                        Chair of Excellence holder Dr. William Kettinger (with Don Marchand and John Rollins)
                        "Making the Invisible Visible: How Companies Win with the Right Information, People
                        and IT" was recognized in the Monday, April 25, 2011 Wall Street Journal in an article
                        titled "Making Sense of It all: Getting Knowledge From Information".
                     
                     
                     The article recommends five books that executives need to read if they want to "...
                        harness technology to make the most of information." Concerning Kettinger's book,
                        Thomas Davenport states in the article that "...It describes the concept of "information
                        orientation" and how it produces better organizational performance. Based on a substantial
                        research study, it's undeniably formulaic. However, I believe the formula they advocate
                        is right on, and any CIO would benefit from trying it".
                     
                     
                     Jan. 2011 AMIS recognized by AIS for its "Outstanding Professional Development" and
                        "Outstanding Membership Activities" The Association of Management Information Systems (AMIS), the student organization
                        of the MIS department, was recently recognized by the Association of Information Systems
                        (AIS) for "Outstanding Professional Development" and "Outstanding Membership Activities."
                        The awards were presented at the International Conference of Information Systems (ICIS)
                        in St. Louis in December 2010. The student organization at the University of Memphis was one of the founding student
                        chapters of the AIS and has a vibrant program of professional and social activities
                        each semester. AMIS' mission is to introduce students to the MIS profession and provide
                        them with opportunities that will enhance their educational and social development
                        as an MIS professional. We invite you to join us for our activities this semester.
                     
                     
                     You can find out more information about the organization by contacting Brandon Jones
                        (AMIS President) at bcjones3@memphis.edu or by contacting Margaret Schultz or Thomas
                        Meservy (Faculty Advisors).
                     
                     
                     Sep. 2010 Dr. Brian Janz moderates the Society for Information Management (SIM) Strategy
                        Series entitled, "Surviving and Thriving in Any Economy." The SIM Strategy Series is an annual day-long event for Information Technology executives
                        and their colleagues (CFOs, CEOs, etc.).
                     
                     
                     Sep. 2010 Dr. Simon has been awarded her third grant from the Department of Defense. This latest grant is entitled "Development of Online Graduate Courses in Business
                        Information Assurance." The online content will be directed toward the four graduate
                        Management Information Systems courses that are part of the graduate Business Information
                        Assurance certificate program. This certificate program is being implemented in the
                        Fall 2010 semester.
                     
                     
                     Sep. 2010 Dr. Robin Poston was one of the leading FCBE faculty members who developed
                        and delivered an intensive training program to over 90 Pinnacle Executives.
                     
                     
                     Aug. 2010 Dr. Robin S. Poston, wins the prestigious 2010-2011 Suzanne Downs Palmer
                        Award in Research." The purpose of the Palmer Awards is to recognize outstanding individual faculty contributions
                        to achieving the research mission of the Fogelman College of Business & Economics.
                     
                     
                     Aug. 2010 Dr. Brian Janz, wins 2009-2010 FCBE Best Conceptual Paper award. Drs. Poston,
                        Kettinger and Simon secure the second place. Each year, the FCBE presents 'best paper' awards in empirical and conceptual categories.
                        The awards are adjudicated by the College's Graduate Studies Doctoral Sub-Committee.
                        In addition to plaques, award winners receive $500 for 1st place and $250 for 2nd
                        place. In the Conceptual/Theoretical Category, this year we have 1st Place, BRIAN JANZ, MIS, and Pattarawan Prasarnphanich. "Freedom to Cooperate:
                        Gaining Clarity Into Knowledge Integration in Information Systems Development Teams,"
                        IEEE's Transactions on Engineering Management, Vol. 56, Issue 4, 2009, 621-635.
                     
                     
                     2nd Place, ROBIN POSTON, MIS, WILLIAM J. KETTINGER, MIS, and JUDY SIMON, MIS "Managing
                        The Vendor Set: Achieving Best Pricing and Quality Service in IT Outsourcing," MIS
                        Quarterly Executive, 8(2), June 2009, 1-14.
                     
                     
                     Aug. 2010 Dr. Bill Kettinger served as a senior faculty camp counselor at the Americas
                        Conference on Information Systems Conference "Junior Faculty Camp" in Lima Peru. This camp is offered to MIS junior faculty from universities throughout the world
                        to help them to adjust to the research and teaching challenges of a faculty career.
                     
                     
                     June 2010 MIS Department Initiates Joint Education Program with Hubei University,
                        China
                     
                     
                     May 2010 Drs. Robin Poston and David Allen selected to lead the EMBA 2011 International
                        Residency to Hong Kong and China
                     
                     
                     Mar. 2010 Dr. Varun Grover visits to discuss The Current State and Future of the IS
                        Field
                     
                     
                     Dec. 2009 Drs. Poston and Kettinger, and PhD Candidate Hu present a research paper
                        on Harnessing the Power of Online Social Networking Services at the SIM Academic Workshop December 15, 2009. Corporate employees are using Facebook, Twitter, MySpace, Orkut,
                        Yahoo! 360°, LinkedIn, and other online social networking services (OSNS) in the workplace.
                        Adding to the managerial challenge of how employees use OSNS is the fact that this
                        technology was not borne in the corporate setting but rather in the social off-work
                        context of informality, fun, and friendship. Based on research access provided by
                        a local Fortune 500 companies, the paper looks at employee OSNS usage behaviors and
                        what companies should be doing about it. Because these behaviors already exist, senior
                        executives cannot start fresh but need to understand how OSNS behaviors are formed
                        in order to develop the appropriate OSNS usage policies and procedures. This paper
                        lends insights into harnessing employee OSNS behaviors in order to proactively maximize
                        employees' knowledge networks while protectively minimizing corporate security breaches
                        and brand damage. We find corporate strategies comprise protective issues (information
                        disclosure risks and wasted time) and proactive issues (social network maintenance
                        and knowledge sharing). The paper concludes with a discussion of overarching principles
                        recommended for harnessing OSNS behaviors.
                     
                     
                     Oct. 2009 UofM's AMIS chapter takes field trip to International Paper's Data Center On October 9th, sixteen students from a new student organization called "AMIS" (Association
                        for Management Information Systems) and their faculty advisor, Dr. Margaret Schultz,
                        went on a field trip to International Paper's Data Center. James Dutkowsky and several
                        others from the Information Technology Team spoke to them about IP's organizational
                        structure, IP's many lines of business, and the supportive role that information technology
                        plays in achieving their strategic objectives. Students learned about IP's IT CORE
                        program (a job-rotation program for new hires that are recent college graduates) and
                        the wide variety of job positions and career paths that are available in their IT
                        Division. Two recent grads from the UofM spoke about how they got their jobs at IP
                        and what the transition was like from college student to IT professional. Afterwards,
                        the students toured IP's most impressive data center facilities where they saw a huge
                        array of blade servers, the massive data storage area network, backup power generators,
                        and IP's own cell-phone signal relay station. Students also learned about the many
                        safety mechanisms and procedures that are in place to protect the company's equipment
                        from damage or destruction due to fire, earth quake or power loss.
                     
                     
                     Oct. 2009 UofM's AMIS chapter takes field trip to the UofM Data and Network Operations
                        Center On October 29th, seventeen students from a new student organization called "AMIS"
                        (Association for Management Information Systems) and their faculty advisor, Dr. Margaret
                        Schultz, went on a field trip to the University's Data and Network Operations Center.
                        During the first part of the field trip, students talked with Dr. Doug Hurley, CIO
                        and VP of Information Technology for the University and Ms. Ellen Watson, Associate
                        VP of Information Technology and deputy CIO for the University. Dr. Hurley and Ms.
                        Watson spoke to the students about IT governance, IT management, and specific ITD
                        hiring practices and job positions. Afterwards, Mark Reavis, Director of the Network
                        Services Department, took the students on a tour of the Data and Network Operation
                        Center in Jones Hall. During the tour, students observed and learned about the hardware
                        and other system components that provide the data, voice, and video communication
                        services for the entire University. They learned about the costs associated with setting
                        up and maintaining a high capacity data and networking facility, the safety precautions
                        that must be in place to protect the data and equipment, and the procedures that would
                        be followed if it were necessary to recover from an event that caused data loss or
                        equipment damage.
                     
                     
                     Sep. 2009 MIS PhD student, Shane Banks, leads student-run PhD orientation Third-year PhD student, Shane Banks, led the first ever student-run PhD orientation
                        for the department of Management Information Systems. Banks was assisted by fellow
                        PhD students Colin Onita and Aaron Peevyhouse. Banks and his compatriots devised the
                        student-run orientation in a continuing effort to improve communication and collaboration
                        among PhD students in the MIS department. The orientation, which was held on Friday,
                        4 Sep 2009, offered students a detailed glimpse into the trials and successes that
                        they will encounter in their next few years. The trio of senior PhD students built
                        upon the college-wide PhD orientation by emphasizing the importance of collaboration
                        with fellow PhD students of every discipline. Banks led the discussion by detailing
                        the problems that can afflict PhD students while offering solutions via personal stories
                        of his experience in the program. To round out the orientation, Peevyhouse and Onita
                        discussed tips for organization and methods for finding articles to assist in research.
                        They also demonstrated the student-created wiki, an indispensable tool that houses
                        knowledge compiled and created by students in years past. While the focus of the orientation
                        was to provide first year students with practical lessons for how to succeed in the
                        PhD program, the trio of veteran students also provided an intimate platform for students
                        to freely ask questions. With such an open platform, students asked many questions
                        that went directly to the heart of what is expected of them as scholars.
                     
                     
                     Aug. 2009 Dr. Bill Kettinger serves as a Camp Counselor at the AMCIS Faculty Camp
                        for junior faculty in San Francisco The AMCIS MIS Camp uses interactive sessions with junior and senior faculty to explore
                        the stresses and joys of balancing one's teaching, research, and personal life to
                        assist junior faculty as they begin their academic careers.
                     
                     
                     Aug. 2009 Dr. Bill Kettinger and MIS PhD Students Lakshman Mahadevan and Rahul Paul
                        present a paper appearing in the 2009 AMCIS proceedings
                     
                     
                     Aug. 2009 Dr. Robin Poston receives the Fogelman College of Business and Economics
                        2008 Best Paper Award for second place in the empirical category Dr. Poston receives the award for a paper published a top academic research journal,
                        Decision Sciences. The paper focuses on how people decide whether to obtain services
                        through online, self-service technologies or traditional, non-technological alternatives.
                        A model of behaviors is tested in the brokerage services context, using observations
                        obtained via survey. Given the growing popularity of online investing combined with
                        the challenging prospect of making optimal decisions in an inherently risky environment,
                        the context offers insights of practical and theoretical importance.
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        News
                        
                           
                              
                              Spotlights
                              Recognitions
                              Publications
                              Newsletter
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              BIT News
                              Publications, recognitions and spotlights about faculty and students of the BIT department.
                           
                           
                              BIT Events
                              Find out what's happening at the department and visit our weekly colloquium.
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us!
                           
                           
                              Return to FCBE
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/6/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/bitm/news/recognitions.php
