http://www.memphis.edu/bitm/events/pastevents.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Fogelman College - Department of Business Information and Technology
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        BIT
                        Programs
                        Faculty
                        Research
                        Admissions
                        Current Students
                        FCBE
                     
                     
                        
                           Events
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Upcoming Events
                                 Past Events
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	BIT
                              	
                        
                              	Events
                              	
                        Past Events 
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Past Events 
                     
                     October 21st, 2016
                     
                     BIT Colloquium
                     
                     Guest Speaker: Professor Sunil Mithas, University of Maryland Topic: Does Platform Owner's Entry Crowd Out Innovation? Evidence From Google Photos
                     
                     
                     September 30th, 2016
                     
                     BIT Colloquium
                     
                     Speaker: Bill Kettinger Topic: Publishing Applied Research in MISQE: Perspectives from an Editor and Author
                     
                     
                     September 23rd, 2016
                     
                     BIT Colloquium
                     
                     Speaker: Robin Poston Topic: Changing the Culture of Software Quality: The Importance of Independence
                     
                     
                     September 16th
                     
                     BIT Colloquium
                     
                     Speaker: He Li, Ph.D. Student Topic: Entry Strategies into Digital Platform Ecosystems: Longitudinal Evidence from
                        the Hadoop Ecosystem
                     
                     
                     April 21th
                     
                     BIT Colloquium
                     
                     Lightning Talks -- Illuminate Me about BIT/MIS, but make it quick!
                     
                     April 8th
                     
                     BIT Colloquium
                     
                     Speaker: UoM Legal Department Topic: The University¹s Sexual Misconduct and Domestic Violence policy
                     
                     
                     April 1st
                     
                     BIT Colloquium
                     
                     Guest Speaker: Prof. Lars Mathiassen Georgia Research Alliance Eminent Scholar - Georgia State University Topic: Engaged Scholarship
                     
                     
                     March 18th
                     
                     BIT Colloquium
                     
                     Guest Speaker: Dr. Michelle Carter The Information School at The University of Washington Topic: Me, My Self and I(T): IT Identity and its Implications for IS Research
                     
                     
                     February 26th, 2016
                     
                     BIT Colloquium
                     
                     Speaker: Son Ngoc Bui Topic: Survivability of IT Startups: A Lesson from Open Source Software Industry
                     
                     
                     February 19th, 2016
                     
                     BIT Colloquium
                     
                     Speaker: Mark Gillenson Hot Topic: Cryptography from 500 BC to Today
                     
                     
                     February 12th, 2016
                     
                     BIT Colloquium
                     
                     Speaker: Chen Zhang Topic: Impact of Information Quality and System Quality on Mobile App Adoption in
                        the Open Data Context
                     
                     
                     February 05th, 2016 
                     
                     BIT Colloquium
                     
                     Speaker: Tom Stafford Topic: Optimizing the Business Side of Science: Publication Review Cycles and Process
                        Management Considerations.
                     
                     
                     November 13, 2015
                     
                     BIT Colloquium
                     
                     Speaker: Mark Gillenson Topic: NoSQL and the Wild West of Database
                     
                     
                     November 6, 2015 Advisory Board Meeting
                     
                     
                     October 30, 2015
                     
                     BIT Colloquium
                     
                     Speaker: Jong Seok Lee Topic: The Negative Effects of Relative and Criticism-Based Performance Appraisals:
                        Escalation of Commitment to a Problematic Task in an IS Project
                     
                     
                     October 23, 2015
                     
                     BIT Colloquium
                     
                     Guest Speaker: Panduka Nagahawatte, Staff Scientist, Department of Biomedical Informatics,
                        University of Tennessee Health Science Center Topic: Genotation: Actionable knowledge for the Scientific Reader
                     
                     
                     October 16 2015
                     
                     Cyber Security Summit
                     
                     October 2 2015
                     
                     BIT Colloquium
                     
                     Speaker: Sandi Richardson Topic: The Characteristics of Employees' Online 'Personas' and their impact on a Firm's
                        Security Risks: a Routine Activities Theory Approach
                     
                     
                     September 25 2015
                     
                     BIT Colloquium
                     
                     Speaker: Judy Simon Topic: National Science Foundation (NSF) Grant Writing Tips
                     
                     
                     September 18 2015
                     
                     BIT Colloquium
                     
                     Speaker: Tom Stafford Topic: Behavioral Perspectives on Cyber-Security
                     
                     
                     April 10 2015
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Special Guest Speaker: Dr. Rudy Hirschheim, Louisiana State University Topic: Assessing Scholarly Influence
                     
                     
                     April 3 2015
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Vlad Ambartsoumian Topic: On the Use of Design Science Methods in Taxonomic Research
                     
                     
                     March 27 2015
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Jong Lee Topic: Optimism Bias in Managing IT Project Risks: A Construal Level Theory Perspective
                     
                     
                     March 20 2015
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Son Bui Topic: Shaping Enterprise Agility Through Program Management Capability
                     
                     
                     February 27 2015
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Tom Stafford Topic: Measuring Task and Person Conflict in Software Testing: A Research Note
                     
                     
                     February 13 2015
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speakers: Fair Josey, Orrin Cooper, and Jeff Kaleta Panel Discussion: Flipped Classroom
                     
                     
                     February 6 2015
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Special Guest Speaker: Dr. Dov Te'eni, Tel Aviv University Topic: Knowledge Maturation and Knowledge Networks in New Product Development: Motivation
                        Patterns and Consequences
                     
                     
                     November 21 2014
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Sandi Richardson Topic: Program Management Capabilities and Enterprise Agility in the Federated Global
                        Enterprise
                     
                     
                     November 7 2014
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speakers: Michaela Luecke and Judy Simon Topic: A Self-Regulatory Approach to Behavioral Compliance With IS Security Policies
                     
                     
                     November 5 2014
                     
                     Technology Careers in Business Technology Careers In Banking—Data Analytics and Security Career Paths for the Future Host: First Tennessee Bank
                     
                     
                     October 29 2014
                     
                     Technology Careers in Business Technology is Transforming Healthcare for Patients, Families and Physicians Host: Methodist Le Bonheur Healthcare
                     
                     
                     October 24 2014
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Mark Gillenson Topic: Recent Research in Software Testing
                     
                     
                     October 22 2014
                     
                     Technology Careers in Business Technology in the Insurance Industry – A Focus on How Emerging Technology is Creating
                        an Industry Evolution Host: Sedgwick Claims Management Services Inc.
                     
                     
                     October 17 2014
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speakers: Jignya Patel and Robin Poston Topic: Project Manager Leadership: Overcoming the Challenges of Agile Adoption in
                        Bureaucracies
                     
                     
                     October 3 2014
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Guest Speaker: Hemang Sunbramanian Topic: Electronic Commerce and Spatial Arbitrage
                     
                     
                     September 26 2014
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Guest Speaker: Naveen Kumar Topic: An Integrated Context Based Information Retrieval Approach
                     
                     
                     September 19 2014
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speakers: Vlad Ambartsoumian and Ted Lee Topic: The Role of Perceptual Adaptation and Attention Theories in Developing Augmented
                        Reality Services for Business and Government
                     
                     
                     September 18 2014
                     
                     AMIS Meeting Guest Speakers: FedEx Employees Topic: The Secrets to Mastering Those Interview Questions (Session 2)
                     
                     
                     September 12 2014
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Guest Speaker: Dr. Kaushik Dutta, Associate Professor, Department of Information Systems,
                        National University of Singapore Topic: Computing Popularity Ranks for Mobile Apps
                     
                     
                     September 11 2014
                     
                     AMIS Meeting Guest Speakers: First Tennessee Bank Employees Topic: The Secrets to Mastering Those Interview Questions (Session 1)
                     
                     
                     April 11 2014
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speakers: Jeff Kaleta and Ted Lee Topic: Hot Topic on Augmented Reality
                     
                     
                     March 21 2014
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Special Guest Speaker: Dr. Mark Keil, John B. Zellars Professor of Computer Information
                        Systems, Georgia State University Topic: Impact of Clinical Team IT Appropriation and Communicative Coordination on
                        Patient Satisfaction
                     
                     
                     February 21 2014
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Vlad Ambartsoumian Topic: Towards a Deeper Understanding of Big Data Analytics and Its Impact on Enterprise
                        Architecture and Enterprise Boundaries
                     
                     
                     February 14 2014
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Son Bui Topic: The Roles of Program Portfolio Management in Sustaining IS Alignment
                     
                     
                     February 7 2014
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speakers: Deepti Agrawal and Chen Zhang Topic: Impact of IT Product Compatibility Initiatives on the Market Value of IT Firms
                     
                     
                     January 31 2014
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Special Guest Speaker: Dr. Key Pousttchi, Head of Wi-Mobile Research Group, University
                        of Augsburg, Germany Topic: The Impact of Mobile Business Issues on IT
                     
                     
                     November 22 2013
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Special Guest Speaker: Dr. Wael Jabr, University of Calgary Topic: Market for Information: An Analysis of Online Word-of-Mouth
                     
                     
                     November 15 2013
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Special Guest Speaker: Dr. Stacie Petter, University of Nebraska Topic: Examining Team Silence and Voice in Online Teams
                     
                     
                     November 8 2013
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Special Guest Speaker: Dr. Sal March, Vanderbilt University Topic: Toward a Social Ontology for Conceptual Modeling
                     
                     
                     October 25 2013
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speakers: Son Bui and Ted Lee Topic: A Framework for SLA in Community Cloud Computing
                     
                     
                     October 18 2013
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Special Guest Speaker: Dr. Sulin Ba, University of Connecticut Topic: One Size Does Not Fit All: The Differential Impact of Online Reviews
                     
                     
                     October 4 2013
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: John Oglesby Topic: Continuation of departmental strategic planning process. MIS faculty only;
                        working lunch at noon (provided)
                     
                     
                     September 27 2013
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Special Guest Speaker: Dr. Haejung Yun, American University Topic: Personal Data Breaches as Service Failure: A Path to Recovery
                     
                     
                     September 20 2013
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Prof. Richard Janikowski Topic: Blue Crush Initiative with the Memphis Police Department
                     
                     
                     September 13 2013
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Dr. Tom Stafford Topic: Formative and reflective measurement of Computer Self-Efficacy, with a special
                        consideration of the role (and, lack thereof) of measurement error in model specifications
                     
                     
                     April 12 2013
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speakers: Dr. Tom Stafford and Jason Rhea Topic: Internet Source Credibility
                     
                     
                     April 5 2013
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speakers: Dr. Chen Zhang and Lakshman Mahadevan Topic: West Meets East - The Role of Media Choice in Cross-Cultural Software Development
                     
                     
                     March 29 2013
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speakers: Dr. Tom Stafford and Rahul Paul Topic: Trust in IT
                     
                     
                     March 22 2013
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Dr. Ling Xue Topic: Executive Compensation and IT Risk Taking
                     
                     
                     March 1 2013
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Special Guest Speaker: Dr. Fred Niederman, St. Louis University Topic: Updating the Representation of Theory: Exploring Beyond Where the Streetlight
                        Shines
                     
                     
                     February 22 2013
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Jeanne Hermann-Petrin Topic: Technology Acceptance of MDs
                     
                     
                     February 15 2013
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Special Guest Speaker: Dr. Fred Davis, University of Arkansas Topic: Neuroscience in IS
                     
                     
                     February 8 2013
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speakers: Jasbir Dhaliwal, Jignya Patel and Robin Poston Topic: Managing Service Level Agreements in Outsourcing Contracts - Future Research
                        Influenced by Ambiguously-Measured Service Contexts
                     
                     
                     February 1 2013
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Special Guest Speaker: Dr. Sang Lee, University of Nebraska--Lincoln Topic: CO-INNOVATION: A New Paradigm for Corporate Innovation
                     
                     
                     November 16 2012
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Special Guest Speaker: Kent Crawford, author, past president of the national PMI and
                        PMI Fellow Topic: Integrating Portfolios, Programs, Projects and People for Organizational Performance
                     
                     
                     November 9 2012
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Special Guest Speaker: Elena Karahanna from the University of Georgia Topic: Understanding the Interplay of Habits and Organizational Routines in Telehealth
                        Implementations
                     
                     
                     October 26 2012
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speakers: Thomas Stafford and Robin Poston Topic: Active Priming of Cultural Outsourcing Stereotypes
                     
                     
                     October 19 2012
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Ling Xue Topic: Leader Effect in Online Customer Community: The Examination of A Group-based
                        Incentive Program
                     
                     
                     October 5 2012
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speakers: Bill Kettinger, Jignya Patel, and Sung Ryoo Topic: Informating Truckers: Understanding Stress Inducing and Reducing Aspects of
                        Digital Migration
                     
                     
                     September 28 2012
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Dr. Rolf Wigand from the University of Arkansas at Little Rock Topic: Building Virtual Organizations and Teams
                     
                     
                     September 21 2012
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Dr. George Deitz, Dept. of Marketing and Supply Chain Management Topic: Effects of Individual and Team Characteristics on Simulation Enhanced Learning:
                        A Multilevel Analysis
                     
                     
                     September 14 2012
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Sandi Richardson Topic: Health Information Exchange - Lessons Learned
                     
                     
                     September 11 2012
                     
                     AMIS "Welcome" Party and Scavenger Hunt
                     
                     April 13 2012
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speakers: Vladimir Ambartsoumian and Dr. Mark Gillenson Topic: New Directions in Data Management and Their Implications for Business Intelligence
                     
                     
                     April 11 2012
                     
                     AMIS Officer Election Meeting The office positions for next year were elected by the existing members. Congratulations
                        to the next year's newly elected officers: Presidents: Brittany Arnold and Nicole Smith Vice President: Keedrick Bass Secretary/Treasurer: Lee Morrell
                     
                     
                     April 6 2012
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Dr. Arun Rai from Georgia State University Topic: (Mis)fit of Vertical Deintegration and IT-enabled Process Integration Capabilities:
                        Consequences for Firm Performance in the U.S. Electric Utility Industry
                     
                     
                     March 30 2012
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Dr. Richard Baskerville from Georgia State University Topic: Design Theorizing Individual Information Systems
                     
                     
                     March 16 2012
                     
                     AIS Success Strategies Webinar Topic: Improving Your Publication Strategy
                     
                     
                     February 24 2012
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Dr. James Wetherbe from Texas Tech University Topic: Career Strategies in Academia
                     
                     
                     February 17 2012
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Dr. Chen Zhang and Deepti Agrawal Topic: Impact of Product Compatibility Initiatives on the Market Value of Information
                        Technology Firms
                     
                     
                     February 3 2012
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Dr. Thomas Stafford Topic: Exploring Dimensions of Technology Dependence
                     
                     
                     January 27 2012
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Dr. Robin Poston Topic: Mindful Experimentation with Innovative Technologies
                     
                     
                     November 18 2011
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Dr. Robin Poston and Jignya Patel Topic: A Software Testing Assessment for Testing Managers to Evaluate Testing Effort
                     
                     
                     November 11 2011
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Dr.Tom Meservy Topic: Information Influence and the Evaluation of Multiple Potential Solutions
                     
                     
                     October 28 2011
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Dr. Mark Gillenson Topic: IBM and the Holocaust: A story about IS business ethics
                     
                     
                     October 21 2011
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Special Guest Speaker: Dr.Stefan Henningsson, Copenhagen Business School Topic: Managing the IT Integration of Acquisitions by Multi-Business Organizations
                     
                     
                     October 7 2011
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Dr. Brian Janz Topic: In Search of Best Practices in Online MIS Education
                     
                     
                     September 30 2011
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Special Guest Speaker: Dr.Ritu Agarwal, Editor-in-Chief, ISR Topic: The Information Value of Online Physician Ratings
                     
                     
                     September 23 2011
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Special Guest Speaker: Dr. Yuan Li, Columbia College Topic: Revisiting the Concept of Information: Its Meanings and Implications for Information
                        Systems Research
                     
                     
                     September 16 2011
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Dr. Insu Park Topic: Perceived Information Assurance, Risk, Resilience, and Information Systems
                        Effectiveness in the Context of Disasters
                     
                     
                     September 14 2011
                     
                     AMIS Fall Kickoff Meeting
                     
                     April 15 2011
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Guest Speaker: Brad Forrester, Pearson Education Topic: Doing more with less. Resources for Educating Millennial Students in an Online
                        Environment
                     
                     
                     April 8 2011
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Special Guest Speaker: Dr. Jason Thatcher, Clemson University Topic: Exploring Mindfulness in Information Technology Use
                     
                     
                     April 1 2011
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Jignya Patel Topic: ICT: An Answer to Knowledge Divide?
                     
                     
                     April 1 2011
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Shalini Bhalla Topic: Investigating the Migration of Users Across Online Social Platform Using Agent
                        Based Modeling
                     
                     
                     March 25 2011
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Lakshman Mahadevan Topic: Developer Motivations in Addressing Security Vulnerabilities ( with Dr.Judy
                        Simon and Dr. Tom Meservy)
                     
                     
                     March 18 2011
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Special Guest Speaker: Dr. Fred Niederman, St. Louis University Topic: A Theory-Oriented Look at the Integration of Information Systems Functions
                        Following Organizational Mergers or Acquisitions
                     
                     
                     February 25 2011
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Dr. Bob Otondo, Mississippi State University Topic: Temporal Structures in Continued Use Intentions: Theoretical Foundations, Methodological
                        Approaches, and Implications
                     
                     
                     February 18 2011
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Dr. Robin Poston Topic: Role of Testers in Selecting an Enterprise Architecture Solution: An Exploratory
                        Study (with J. Dhaliwal and R. Koja)
                     
                     
                     February 11 2011
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Jeffrey Kaleta and Dr. Chen Zhang Topic: A Fork in the Road: A Conceptual Model of Online Consumer Iterative Search
                        (with Bill Kettinger, and Anssi Öörni)
                     
                     
                     February 4 2011 MIS Colloquium Special guest Speaker: Dr. Tina Wakolbinger, Dept. of Marketing and Supply Chain Topic: Green Inter-organizational IS for Product Recovery Management
                     
                     
                     January 28 2011
                     
                     MIS Colloquium Speaker: Dr. Sandra Richardson Topic: Designing an Academic PM Program (with Robin Poston) & other "every day" research
                        opportunities
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Events
                        
                           
                              
                              Upcoming Events
                              Past Events
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              BIT News
                              Publications, recognitions and spotlights about faculty and students of the BIT department.
                           
                           
                              BIT Events
                              Find out what's happening at the department and visit our weekly colloquium.
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us!
                           
                           
                              Return to FCBE
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/22/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/bitm/events/pastevents.php
