http://www.memphis.edu/aa/provost/professorships/index.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Academic Affairs
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Provost
                        Resources
                        Academic Affairs Units
                     
                     
                        
                           Provost
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Chairs of Excellence
                                 University Professorships
                                 Awards Program
                                       About Awards Programs
                                       Academic Affairs Nominations
                                       Academic Affairs Winners
                                       Faculty Awards
                                       Faculty Award Winners
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Academic Affairs
                              	
                        
                           	Provost
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     University Professorships
                     
                     Purpose
                     
                     The University of Memphis employs a number of faculty members who have made significant
                        contributions to its educational, research, outreach, and service missions and bring
                        national and international recognition to the University and to our community. Their
                        contributions are recognized in a number of university-level awards programs, including
                        the Eminent Faculty Award, the Distinguished Research Award, the Outstanding Teaching
                        Award, and other comparable types of recognition. These programs, however, do not
                        reach as many of the University's eligible faculty as we would like. We have consequently
                        developed a University Professorships program that augments out current awards program
                        and will help us retain our best faculty. This program presently includes three Professorships.
                        Click on the links below to see additional information on a specific professorship:
                     
                     
                     The Faudree University Professorships  -- To donate, click here . The Atkins University Professorships  -- To donate, click here . The First Tennessee University Professorships  -- To donate, click here . Previous Award Recipients
                     
                     Process
                     
                     
                        
                        Faculty members, department chairs, or other college administrators would nominated
                              eligible recipients.
                        
                        The Provost, with input from an advisory faculty group, would select the recipient(s)
                              of a University Professorship subject to the approval of the President of the University.
                        
                        Awardees would be allowed to use their allocations for salaries, travel, supplies,
                              or other expenses in any proportion they choose, as long as the total sum does not
                              exceed the annual award amount. The actual amount of the salary supplement and miscellaneous
                              awards may vary slightly from year-to-year due to investment income results, but would
                              usually be approximately $5,000 per year for full professors and $2,500 per year for
                              associate professors. 
                        
                        Continued salary increases would be computed on the awardee's base salary, less the
                              value of the supplemental income related to the University Professorship. Upon relinquishing
                              the University Professorship, the faculty member's salary would revert to his/her
                              base, including any routine salary increases provided during the period of the award,
                              but less the supplemental increase associated with the University Professorship.  
                        
                     
                     
                       Faudree University Professorships
                     
                     
                     In consideration of Mr. and Mrs. Jabie Hardin's desire to demonstrate their regard
                        and support for Dr. Ralph Faudree, former Provost of the University of Memphis, this
                        program was established. 
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Full and associate tenured professors with ten years of service at the University
                           of Memphis are eligible for the program. Associate professors with five years of service
                           at the University are eligible for the program.
                        
                        
                        Awardees would hold University Professorships for a maximum of three years.
                        
                        Selection will be based upon the quality of the faculty member's teaching, research,
                           and service/outreach, with a priority given to faculty contributing in all three areas.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     To donate to the Faudree University Professorship, please click here .
                     
                     
                       Atkins University Professorships
                     
                     
                     In consideration of Mr. Olin Atkins's desire to support the Olin Atkins University
                        Professorships program, a faculty rewards program designed to help the University
                        retain its best and brightest faculty and to make an investment in the University's
                        people. 
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Full and associate tenured professors with ten years of service at the University
                           of Memphis are eligible for the program.
                        
                        
                        Awardees would hold University Professorships for a maximum of three years and would
                           be ineligible for re-consideration for a minimum of three years following expiration
                           of initial awards.
                        
                        
                        Selection will be based upon the quality of the faculty member's teaching, research,
                           and service, with a special emphasis on teaching skill.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     To donate to the Atkins University Professorship, please click here .
                     
                     
                       First Tennessee University Professorships
                     
                     
                     In consideration of the desire of the First Tennessee Foundation to support a University
                        professorships program, this program was established to promote the University's goals
                        of academic quality, community connections, and expanded research capabilities by
                        recognizing individual faculty members with financial rewards designed to help the
                        University recruit and retain outstanding professors.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Full and associate tenured professors with ten years of service at the University
                           of Memphis are eligible for the program.
                        
                        
                        Awardees would hold University Professorships for a maximum of three years and would
                           be ineligible for re-consideration for a minimum of three years following expiration
                           of initial awards.
                        
                        
                        Selection for professorship will recognize outstanding individual faculty contributions
                           in teaching, scholarship, service, and community outreach. 
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     To donate to the First Tennessee University Professorship, please click here .
                     
                     
                       PREVIOUS AWARD RECIPIENTS
                     
                     
                     2017 First Tennessee: Eddie Jacobs, Electrical Engineering Faudree: Joe Hayden, Journalism; Bob Hetherington, Theatre & Dance; Chrysanthe Preza,
                        Electrical Engineering
                     
                     
                     2016 First Tennessee: Eddie Jacobs, Electrical Engineering Faudree: Joe Hayden, Journalism; Bob Hetherington, Theatre & Dance; Chrysanthe Preza,
                        Electrical Engineering
                     
                     
                     2015 First Tennessee: Ralph Faudree, Mathematical Sciences; Brian Janz, Management Information
                        Systems; Carol Crown, Art; Robert Kozma, Mathematical Sciences Faudree: Marla Stafford, Marketing Supply Chain; Gisele Goldstein, Mathematical Sciences;
                        Santosh Kumar, Computer Science
                     
                     
                     2014 First Tennessee: Ralph Faudree, Mathematical Sciences; Brian Janz, Management Information
                        Systems; Carol Crown, Art; Robert Kozma, Mathematical Sciences Faudree: Marla Stafford, Marketing Supply Chain; Gisele Goldstein, Mathematical Sciences;
                        Santosh Kumar, Computer Science
                     
                     
                     2013 This FY we were unable to offer any new Faudree, Atkins, or First Tennessee professorships.
                     
                     
                     2012 First Tennessee: Robert Kozma, Mathematical Sciences; Carol Crown, Art; Brian Janz,
                        Management Information Systems Faudree: Ralph Faudree, Provost
                     
                     
                     2011 First Tennessee: Marla Stafford, Marketing & Supply Management Faudree: Gisele Goldstein, Mathematics; Santosh Kumar, Computer Science
                     
                     
                     2010 Faudree: Rick Bloomer, Health and Sport Sciences; Jonathan Judaken, History; Ken Ward,
                        Public Health Atkins: David Appleby, Communication
                     
                     
                     2009 First Tennessee: Deborah Lowther, ICL; Cary Holladay, English Faudree: Pu-Qi Jiang, Music
                     
                     
                     2008 First Tennessee: David Allen, Management; Emin Babakus, Marketing Supply Management;
                        Eugene Buder, AUDSLP; Theodore Burkey, Chemistry; Roy Van Arsdale, Earth Sciences Faudree: Joan Schmelz, Physics
                     
                     
                     2007 First Tennessee: Albert Okunade, Economics Faudree: Stanley Hyland, School of Urban Affairs & Public Policy; Anna Kaminska, Mathematics;
                        Vivian Morris, Education Atkins: Abby Parrill-Baker, Chemistry
                     
                     
                     2006 First Tennessee: David Evans, School of Music; Allison Graham, Communication Faudree: Monika Nenon, Foreign Languages
                     
                     
                     2005 First Tennessee: Gloria Baxter, Theatre & Dance; Carl Halford, Electrical Engineering Faudree: Don Franceschetti, Physics
                     
                     
                     2004 Faudree: Leonard Lawlor, Philosophy: Steven J. Ross, Communication; Steven M. Ross,
                        Counseling, Educational Psychology and Research Atkins: Janann Sherman, History
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Provost
                        
                           
                              
                              Chairs of Excellence
                              University Professorships
                              Awards Program
                                    About Awards Programs
                                    Academic Affairs Nominations
                                    Academic Affairs Winners
                                    Faculty Awards
                                    Faculty Award Winners
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Provost's Blog
                              Check out some of the latest Academic Affairs news
                           
                           
                              Academic Affairs Award Nominations
                              Help us recognize the hard work and dedication of the University's staff
                           
                           
                              Critical Conversations
                              Join the conversation today!
                           
                           
                              Healthy Memphis Initiative
                              Making Memphis a healthier place
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/20/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/aa/provost/professorships/index.php
