http://www.memphis.edu/accolades/college-awards/dunavant-professorships.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			College of Arts and Sciences Accolades
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        University Awards
                        College Awards
                        Student Awards
                        New Faculty
                        Service Awards
                     
                     
                        
                           College Awards
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Dean's Award for Advising Excellence
                                 Dean's Award for Teaching Excellence
                                 Dunavant Faculty Professorship Award
                                 Early Career Research Award
                                 PDA Assignments
                                 Travel Enrichment
                                 W. Russell Smith Teaching Excellence
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Accolades
                              	
                        
                              	College Awards
                              	
                        College of Arts and Sciences Dunavant Professorships
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Dunavant Faculty Professorships
                     
                     Dr. Keri Brondo 
                     
                     Dr. Mohamed Laradji
                     
                     Dr. Susan O'Donovan
                     
                     Dr. Vasile Rus
                     
                     Dr. Keri Brondo , Anthropology
                     
                     
                     Dr. Brondo is the Director of the International Studies Program and an Associate Professor in
                        the Department of Anthropology. Her research and teaching expertise are within international
                        development, environmental anthropology, conservation voluntourism, and gender and
                        social justice. Her work focuses on the relationships between rights to natural resources,
                        conservation and development policy, and local livelihoods, particularly on Honduras'
                        north coast and islands. She is a former Fulbright scholar and Title VI FLAS recipient,
                        and is regularly called upon to provide expert testimony for amnesty cases and has
                        served as amicus curie for the the Interamerican Commission on Human Rights on behalf
                        of the afroindigenous Garifuna community.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Brondo has over 14 years of leadership experience within her discipline's largest
                        professional association, the American Anthropological Association (AAA). She served
                        as Chair of the AAA Committee on the Status of Women in Anthropology (COSWA), Chair
                        of the AAA Committee on Practicing, Applied and Public Interest Anthropology (CoPAPIA),
                        and currently serves on its Executive Board. At the University of Memphis, Dr. Brondo
                        Chaired the Engaged Scholarship Committee (2010-2012), currently Co-Chairs the Gender
                        and Environment Research Group with the Center for Research on Women (CROW), and is
                        the Academic Coordinator for Tennessee's Governor School for International Studies.
                        She regularly partners with local environmental organizations and parks to involve
                        UofM students in engaged scholarship research endeavors and is also working on a project
                        (w/ J. Myers, PI, and A. Hill) funded by TBR to explore the relationship between campus
                        housing, student diversity, and academic success. Internationally, she is part of
                        a team working to improve conservation volunteer opportunities and local engagement
                        on the island of Utila, Honduras, funded by a grant from by Colorado State University's
                        Center for Collaborative Conservation.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Brondo is author or editor of 3 books and over 60 articles, book chapters, agency
                        reports, reviews and commentaries. Her books include Cultural Anthropology: Contemporary,
                        Public, and Critical Readings (Oxford University Press, 2016), Land Grab: Green Neoliberalism,
                        Gender, and Garifuna Resistance (University of Arizona Press, 2013), and Intersections
                        of Faith and Development in Local Global Contexts (co-edited w/ T. Hefferan, Wiley-Blackwell,
                        2010). Her next book project, tentatively titled, For the Love of Swamper: Multispecies
                        Entanglements in Honduras' Affect Economy, explores the relationship between conservation
                        voluntourism, protected area management, and local livelihoods.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Mohamed Laradji , Physics and Materials Science
                     
                     
                     Dr. Mohamed Laradji is a professor in the Department of Physics and Materials Science. He received his
                        doctorate from McGill University, and was employed at universities in Denmark, Georgia,
                        and Canada before coming to Memphis. He conducts computational and theoretical research
                        in biophysics and soft matter, including biomembranes, polymers, and nanomaterials.
                        His research has been published in many peer-reviewed journal articles, book chapters,
                        and conference proceedings. He also holds several patents. His research has been supported
                        by multiple grants from the National Science Foundation, the National Institutes of
                        Health and NASA. Dr. Laradji is a Fellow of the American Physical Society.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Susan O'Donovan , History
                     
                     
                     Susan Eva O'Donovan is an Associate Professor of History at the University of Memphis. She is a past
                        editor on the Freedmen & Southern Society Project at the University of Maryland, a
                        former member of the faculties of History and African & African American Studies at
                        Harvard University, and co-editor of American Nineteenth-Century History, the journal
                        of the British American Nineteenth-Century History Association. A specialist in African
                        American history with a particular interest in slavery and emancipation, O'Donovan
                        is the author of Becoming Free in the Cotton South (2007), winner of the 2008 OAH
                        James A. Rawley Prize, the 2009 Georgia Historical Records Advisory Board Award for
                        Excellence in Research Using the Holdings of an Archives, and finalist for the 2008
                        Agricultural History Society Theodore Saloutos Memorial Award. She is also author
                        or co-editor of numerous other publications, including Freedom: A Documentary History
                        of Emancipation, 1861-1867, ser. 3, vol. 1, Land and Labor, 1865 (2008); Freedom:
                        A Documentary History of Emancipation, 1861-1867, ser. 3, vol. 1, Land and Labor,
                        1866-67 (2013) (winner of the 2015 Thomas Jefferson Prize given by the Society for
                        History of the Federal Government); "At the Intersection of Cotton and Commerce: Antebellum
                        Savannah and its Slaves," in Slavery and Freedom in Savannah, ed. Daina Ramey and
                        Leslie M. Harris (2014); "Mapping Freedom's Terrain: The Political and Productive
                        Landscapes of Wilmington, North Carolina," in After Slavery: New Approaches to the
                        Reconstruction South, ed. by Bruce E. Baker and Brian Kelly (2013); and "Universities
                        of Social and Political Change: Slaves in Jail in Antebellum America," in Buried Lives:
                        Incarcerated in Early America, ed. by Michele Lise Tarter and Richard Bell (2012)
                        which has been reprinted in Major Problems in American History, vol. 1, 4th ed. (2016).
                        O'Donovan has contributed articles, review essays, opinion pieces, and book reviews
                        to a range of periodicals and journals, most recently, Labor: Studies in Working-Class
                        History of the Americas, The Journal of American History, Civil War History, the Tennessee
                        Historical Quarterly, and the New York Times. O'Donovan is currently at work on a
                        project Changing the Rules of the Game: Mobility, Messages, and Power in Slavery's
                        Nation. This study seeks to take seriously, historicize, and understand what is all
                        too often left unexamined as the "politics of slaves." In addition to her research
                        and writing, O'Donovan is also working in partnership with the National Park Service
                        and other collaborative partners to develop the first-ever NPS commemoration devoted
                        to any aspect of Reconstruction. Titled Memories of a Massacre: Memphis 1866, this
                        initiative is designed to generate an enduring and public conversation about a long-overlooked
                        but foundational part of the American experience. O'Donovan's scholarship has been
                        generously supported by a number of prestigious fellowships and grants, including
                        residential fellowships at Agrarian Studies (Yale); the Gilder Lehrman Center for
                        the Study of Slavery, Resistance, and Abolition; and the Newberry Library. She is
                        currently an OAH Distinguished Lecturer, and coordinator for West Tennessee History
                        Day.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Dr. Vasile Rus , Computer Science
                     
                     
                     Dr. Vasile Rus is a Professor in the Department of Computer Science at The University of Memphis
                        with a joint appointment in the Institute for Intelligent Systems. His research interests
                        lie at the intersection of artificial intelligence, machine learning, and computational
                        linguistics with an emphasis on developing interactive intelligent systems based on
                        strong theoretical findings in order to solve big challenges such as automatically
                        answering questions from large collections of documents, furthering the effectiveness
                        of educational technologies such as intelligent tutoring systems, increasing the pace
                        of discovery in biomedical domains, developing interactive systems that optimize the
                        effectiveness of substance abuse treatments, or improving the quality of very large
                        software projects.
                     
                     
                     Dr. Rus has served in various roles on research projects funded by the National Science
                        Foundation, Department of Defense, Department of Education, and private companies.
                        Dr. Rus produced more than 100 peer-reviewed publications and received 4 Best Paper
                        Awards; he has won the first two Question Answering competition organized by the National
                        Institute for Science and Technology (NIST) and recently his team won the English
                        Semantic Similarity challenge organized by the leading forum on semantic evaluations
                        – SemEval. Among other accomplishments, Dr. Rus was named Systems Testing Research
                        Fellow of the Fedex Institute of Technology for his pioneering work in the area of
                        software systems testing and is member of the PI Millionaire club at The University
                        of Memphis for his successful efforts to attract multi-million funds from federal
                        agencies as Principal Investigator (PI).
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        College Awards
                        
                           
                              
                              Dean's Award for Advising Excellence
                              Dean's Award for Teaching Excellence
                              Dunavant Faculty Professorship Award
                              Early Career Research Award
                              PDA Assignments
                              Travel Enrichment
                              W. Russell Smith Teaching Excellence
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Creative Works
                              Browse through recent publications and research achievements honoring CAS faculty
                                 members.
                              
                           
                           
                              E-Files Newsletter
                              Search the E-Files for regular updates regarding news, bulletins, and events in the
                                 College of Arts and Sciences.
                              
                           
                           
                              College of Arts and Sciences
                              Learn more about the exciting research, engaged scholarship and world-class faculty
                                 in the College of Arts and Sciences.
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/2/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/accolades/college-awards/dunavant-professorships.php
