http://www.memphis.edu/umdc/events/index.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			University of Memphis Design Collaborative (UMDC)
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Partners
                        Critical Community Challenges
                        Studio
                        Let's Stay Together
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	UMDC
                              	
                        
                           	Events
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Events for the UMDC
                     
                     *All UMDC Events are open to the public. We encourage Memphians to join us at events
                        to view work, ask questions, and become informed about the UMDC and the Studio. The
                        UMDC looks forward to having you there. 
                     
                     
                     Current & Future Events:
                     
                     Edge/Victorian Village Community meeting
                     
                      
                     
                     When:  Thursday, September 8, 2016 (9/8); 6:00pm - 8:00pm
                     
                     Where:  Premier Palace - 629 Monroe Ave
                     
                     Purpose:  This community meeting is looking to engage community members regarding
                           the public space at Orleans and Madison, specifically as it relates to enhancing the
                           public space through possible design interventions.  Public input will also be gathered
                           in relation to a connectivity plan for the area parks giving feedback on which routes
                           and areas should be connected.  City of Memphis Engineering will also be detailing
                           what streetscape improvements will be taking place within the neighborhood, allowing
                           for feedback on the public enhancements to correspond with these changes. 
                     
                     Past Events:
                     
                     Creating Healthy Places Summit: Envisioning a Healthier crosstown
                     
                     
                        
                        SUMMIT RECAP
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      VIEW SUMMIT PROGRAM HERE
                     
                     When: Wednesday May 4th, 2016 (5/4); 10:00 am - 3:00 pm
                     
                     Where: J.K. Lewis Senior Center (1188 N Parkway - Corner of Bellevue and N Parkway)
                     
                     Purpose: The Healthy Places Summit is a community conversation about our environment's
                        effect on health. The Summit will offer a space for critical observation of the intersects
                        of urban design and public health. The conversation will strive to identify and define
                        design and policy interventions to improve the safety, health and quality of life
                        in our places, with a focus on how improved walkability in the built environment and
                        active transportation can support overall health and quality of life. Dialogue from
                        this initiative will influence public policy that supports the development of more
                        safe, walkable places within our region, improve public health, and enhance the accessibility
                        of mobility.
                     
                     
                     CROSSTOWN COMMUNITY WORKSHOP
                     
                     When: Thursday, April 14th (4/14); 5:00 pm - 7:00 pm
                     
                     Where: Midtown Crossing Grill
                     
                     Purpose: This event is meant to be a time for presentation and discussion of work
                           which is being accomplished by the UMDC Studio in conjunction with Memphis Walks partners.
                           The main topic of discussion was walkability, especially as how it relates to health,
                           safety, and the built environment. The Crosstown Community Perception Survey will
                           be presented and participants will be asked to fill it out to help provide knowledge
                           of issues and the area. Existing conditions will be provided and feedback is very
                           much welcome. Livable Memphis will be presenting their walkability toolkit. 
                     
                     BUILDING HEALTHY COMMUNITIES CASE STUDY PRESENTATIONS
                     
                     When: Wednesday, February 3rd (2/3); 2:00 pm - 5:00 pm
                     
                     Where: Jones Hall Gallery (109 Jones Hall), University of Memphis
                     
                     Purpose: This event showcases work of the 2016 Spring UMDC studio which is focused
                        on building healthy communities. Case studies will be presented showing cities and
                        neighborhoods from around the United States and other countries that have been able
                        to successfully create healthy communities. Often these cities have been able to link
                        urban design with public policy and other elements of place-making to create thriving,
                        livable neighborhoods which are accessible and open to all.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     W2W - WORKFORCE TO WORK SUMMIT
                     
                     
                        
                        SUMMIT RECAP
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     When: Thursday, December 10th; Noon-4:30pm
                     
                     Where: The FedEx Institute of Technology @ the University of Memphis
                     
                     The Workforce to Work Transportation Summit: Connecting People to Places will explore
                        expanding transportation choices in Memphis and how investments in transit, bicycling,
                        walking, rideshare, and carpooling can help employees access jobs. This event is being
                        held in conjunction with the Intermodal Freight Transportation Institute annual conference
                        – The State of Freight.
                     
                     
                     Summit Agenda
                     10am-4pm MOVING IN MEMPHIS EXHIBIT
                     
                     by the University of Memphis Design Collaborative Studio on "Transportation Planning"
                        - Fall 2015
                     
                     
                     This exhibit will analyze how to enhance mobility options for Memphis residents by
                        drawing from innovative transportation policies and plans implemented in other cities
                        and then, focusing on current needs and possible future options in five sample neighborhoods.
                     
                     12pm LUNCH   1pm CONNECTING PEOPLE TO WORK PLACES
                     
                     Provocation Address
                     
                     by Benjamin de la Pena, The Knight Foundation
                     
                     In America, low and middle income households spend up to a third of their annual income
                        on transportation expenses. With most jobs in most US cities inaccessible to transit,
                        undue hardship is placed on the most vulnerable of us. On the other hand, mobile talent
                        are able to choose where they want to live before they look for a job. Not only are
                        companies pursing talent and moving to city center but mobile talent are choosing
                        companies in places that are walkable and have transportation options. This will frame
                        the exploration of expanding transportation choices in Memphis. We will look at what
                        three different cities are doing and examine what steps Memphis can take to equitably
                        connect people to places.
                     
                     1:30pm CONNECTING PEOPLE TO WORK PLACES - Memphis Panel Discussion
                     
                     This panel aims to investigate the specific needs, opportunities, and challenges Memphis
                        faces in enhancing transportation options for residents, with a special focus on the
                        workforce. Panelists representing local stakeholders will share their perspectives
                        for getting employees at all income levels to work.
                     
                     
                     Panelists:
                     
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Dr. Glen Fenter, Greater Memphis Alliance for Competitive Workforce
                        
                        Kevin Woods, Workforce Investment Network
                        
                        Ron Garrison, Memphis Area Transit Authority
                        
                        Sondra Howell, Bioworks Foundation
                        
                        John Dudas, Greater Memphis Chamber - Transportation Committee
                        
                        Doug McGowen, Innovate Memphis
                        
                     
                     
                     Moderator:
                     
                     
                        
                        Carol Coletta, The Knight Foundation
                        
                     
                     
                      
                     WORKSHOPS
                     
                     Summit participants may join working groups aimed at identifying action strategies
                        to enhance Memphis's Transportation System, with a special focus supporting Memphis's
                        workforce.
                     
                     2:30pm Concurrent Workshops I EXPANDING BICYCLING IN YOUR COMMUNITY
                     
                     Over the last 5 years, Memphis has experienced a significant improvement of its bicycling
                        infrastructure and ridership. This session focuses on bicycling as an effective and
                        equitable transportation option, and how and why neighborhoods across Memphis are
                        tapping into it.
                     
                     
                     Invited Participants Kyle Wagenschutz, City of Memphis, Bike & Pedestrian Coordinator Roshun Austin, The Works Community Development Corporation Sara Studdard, Explore Bike Share
                     
                     NEW STRATEGIES IN TRANSIT PLANNING & OUTREACH
                     
                     With growing interest in Memphis's public transit system, this workshop invites participants
                        to discuss how transit and transportation service providers, including Memphis Area
                        Transit Authority (MATA), can target service improvements and incorporate public engagement
                        and new technologies.
                     
                     
                     Invited Participants Scarlet Ponder, Memphis Area Transit Authority Ham Smythe, Premier Transportation Lauren Taylor, Hyde Family Foundation
                     
                     3:30pm Concurrent Workshops II EXPANDING INSTITUTIONAL TRANSPORTATION CHOICES
                     
                     This session explores how large institutions, like the University of Memphis and the
                        Medical District, are looking at shifting demands around transportation and land use
                        and helping students and employees get to campus using various transportation modes.
                     
                     
                     Invited Participants Tony Poteet, University of Memphis Campus Planning Tommy Miller, University of Memphis Parking & Transportation Services Tommy Pacello, U3 Advisors & Memphis Medical Center
                     
                     CONNECTING PLACES: DEVELOPMENT PATTERNS & SPATIAL EFFICIENCY
                     
                     This session aims at connecting successful, innovative transportation policies with
                        a model of development that counteracts land consumption and urban sprawl, encouraging
                        spatial efficiency and urban density.
                     
                     
                     Invited Participants Charlie Santo, University of Memphis, City and Regional Planning John Lawrence, Economic Development Growth Engine-EDGE John Zeanah, Memphis & Shelby County, Office of Sustainability
                     
                     
                     Registration for the morning conference, presented and hosted by the Intermodal Transportation
                              Freight Institute, can be found here. The Intermodal Freight Conference will be held
                              from 8:15 am until after lunch, which is when the Transportation Summit will begin.
                              Registration for both events are separate, though lunch is provided with registration
                              for either event. 
                     
                     PIZZA WITH PLANNERS, HOSTED BY LIVABLE MEMPHIS
                     
                     When: Thursday, October 15th; 5:30-7pm
                     
                     Where: Benjamin L. Hooks Central Library (3030 Poplar Ave, Memphis, TN 38111)
                     
                     Purpose: Presentation by the UMDC on the challenges faced by the Bluff City and the
                        initiatives being undertaken to provide creative solutions
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Events
                              
                           
                           
                              Initiatives
                              
                           
                           
                              Resources
                              
                           
                           
                              Contact
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/7/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/umdc/events/index.php
