http://www.memphis.edu/ce/people/bdelnaby.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Civil Engineering
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Future Students
                        Current Students
                        Research
                        People
                        About
                        Accreditation
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Civil Engineering
                              	
                        
                              	People
                              	
                        Dr. Adel Abdelnaby
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        	
                        
                        		  
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                                                  
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Dr. Adel Abdelnaby
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Assistant Professor, Civil Engineering
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Phone
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                          (901) 678-4633
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Email
                                       
                                       bdelnaby@memphis.edu
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Fax
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                          (901) 678-3026 
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Office
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                          106C Engineering Science Building
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Office Hours
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    										
                                    
                                    
                                                                            
                                    
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           			 
                           			  
                           
                           
                           Research Interests       Publications       Students       Teaching         Testing Facility
                           
                            
                           
                           About Dr. Adel Abdelnaby
                           
                           Abdelnaby holds a Ph.D. from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (2012).
                              He has been on the faculty of the Department of Civil Engineering at The University
                              of Memphis since the fall of 2012. His professional experience includes working as
                              a design engineer at ACE Consulting Engineers Moharram-Bakhoum, one of the largest
                              construction and civil engineering companies in the Middle East. Dr. Abdelnaby's research
                              interests are primarily in the areas of structural dynamics, earthquake engineering,
                              structural health monitoring, life-cycle analysis of structures subjected to multiple
                              hazards, application of innovative and smart materials in structures for hazard mitigation,
                              passive and active control of structures, and nonlinear finite element methods. He
                              teaches graduate and undergraduate courses related to the behavior and design of steel
                              structures, nonlinear analysis of structural systems, and mechanics of materials.
                           
                           
                           Dr. Abdelnaby is a member of the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE), American
                              Institute of Steel Construction (AISC), American Concrete Institute (ACI), Earthquake
                              Engineering Research Institute (EERI), and American Society for Engineering Education
                              (ASEE). He also acts as a reviewer for several journals in structural engineering.
                           
                           
                           Research Interests
                           
                           Analytical/Experimental Hybrid Simulation
                           
                           
                              
                              Quasi-static and pseudo-dynamic testing and hybrid simulation of full and scaled-structural
                                 components, and systems.
                              
                              
                              Development of control algorithms, instrumentation, and advanced measurement techniques.
                              
                           
                           
                           Sustainable construction
                           
                           
                              
                              Life-cycle analysis of lifeline structures and buildings as influenced by aging and
                                 deterioration under repeated natural hazards.
                              
                              
                              Development of sustainability metrics for civil infrastructure.
                              
                              Use of advanced materials and structural optimization tools for sustainable construction.
                              
                           
                           
                           Advanced materials in civil engineering
                           
                           
                              
                              Material response characterization through testing.
                              
                              Development of constitutive models.
                              
                              Implementation of complicated material models in numerical tools for computer simulation.
                              
                           
                           
                           Structural health monitoring
                           
                           
                              
                              Response monitoring of existing bridges and buildings.
                              
                              In-service evaluation of structures.
                              
                           
                           
                           Vulnerability assessment of structures
                           
                           
                              
                              Development of vulnerability curves for special and populations of structures under
                                 extreme loading conditions.
                              
                              
                              Development of loss estimation and mitigation strategies.
                              
                           
                           
                           Structural stability and design of steel and composite steel/concrete structures
                           
                           
                              
                              Establishment of numerical models that incorporate material and geometrical non-linearities
                                 and consider structure stability under monotonic, cyclic and earthquake motions.
                              
                              
                              Progressive collapse of steel buildings.
                              
                           
                           
                           Publications
                           
                           
                           Journal Publications
                           
                           - Abdelnaby, A. "Fragility Curves for RC Frames Subjected to Tohoku Mainshock-aftershocks Sequences,"
                              Journal of Earthquake Engineering (accepted for publication).
                           
                           
                           - Hosseinpour, F., Abdelnaby, A. (2016) "Effect of different aspects of multiple earthquakes on the nonlinear behavior
                              of RC structures," Soil Dynamic and Earthquake Engineering (accepted for publication).
                           
                           
                           - Movaghati, S., Abdelnaby, A. (2016) "Advancements in Fragility Analysis using Numerical Calibration Methods for
                              a Horizontally Curved RC Bridge," Engineering Structures, Vol. 125C, pp. 236-243.
                              (DOI: 10.1016/j.engstruct.2016.07.017). view article online
                           
                           - Abdelnaby, A. , Elnashai, A. (2015) "Numerical Modeling and Analysis of RC Frames Subjected to Multiple
                              Earthquakes," Earthquakes and Structures, An International Journal Vol. 9, No. 5 pp.
                              957-981. (DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.12989/eas.2015.9.5.957). view article online
                           
                           - Hosseinpour, F., Abdelnaby, A. (2015) "Statistical Evaluation of the Monotonic Models for FRP Confined Concrete
                              Prisms," Advances in Concrete Construction, An International Journal Vol. 3, No. 3
                              pp. 161-185. (DOI: 10.12989/acc.2015.3.3.161 ). view article online
                           
                           - Abdelnaby, A. , Frankie, T., Spencer, B. (2014) "Numerical and Hybrid Analysis of a Curved Bridge
                              and Methods of Numerical Model Calibration," Engineering Structures, Vol. 70C pp.
                              234-245 (D.O.I. 10.1016/j.engstruct.2014.04.009). view article online
                           
                           - Abdelnaby, A. , Elnashai, A. (2014) "Performance of Degrading Reinforced Concrete Frame Systems
                              under Tohoku and Christchurch Earthquake Sequences," Journal of Earthquake Engineering,
                              Vol. 18(7) pp. 1009-1036 (DOI:10.1080/13632469.2014.923796). view article online
                           
                           - Spencer, B., Chang, C., Frankie, T., Kuchma, D., Silva, P., Abdelnaby, A. (2014) "A Phased Approach to Enable Hybrid Simulation of Complex Structures," Earthquake
                              Engineering and Engineering Vibration, Vol. 13 pp. 63-77 (D.O.I. 10.1007/s11803-014-0240-2).
                              view article online
                           
                           - Abdelnaby, A. , Elnashai, A. (2013) "Integrity Assessment of the Pharos of Alexandria during the
                              AD 1303 Earthquake," Engineering Failure Analysis, Vol. 33c, pp. 119-138. view article online
                           
                           - Abdelnaby, A. , Frankie, T., Spencer, B. (2013) "Numerical Hybrid Simulation Modeling Verification
                              for a 3-Pier Bridge," Journal of Systemics, Cybernetics and Informatics, Vol. 11(5),
                              pp. 48-51. view article online
                           
                           - Abdelnaby, A. , Machaly, E.S., Safar, S., "Parametric Analysis of Plate Girder Web Panels Subjected
                              to Pure Shear", Journal of Engineering and Applied Science, Vol. 54, December 2007.
                              v iew article online
                           
                           - Abdelnaby, A. , Machaly, E.S., Safar, S., "New Design Rules for Plate Girder Web Panels Subjected
                              to Pure Shear", Journal of Engineering and Applied Science, Vol. 55, February 2008.
                              view article online
                           
                           - Abdelnaby, A. , University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, PhD Dissertation (2012): Multiple Earthquake
                              Effects on Degrading Reinforced Concrete Structures. view dissertation online
                           
                           - Toros, C., Oyguc, R., Abdelnaby, A. "Seismic Behavior of Irregular Reinforeced-Concrete Structures under Multiple Earthquake
                              Excitations," (under review).
                           
                           
                           - Ghaffari, Y., Pezeshk, S., Abdelnaby, A. "Evaluation of Load Increase factor in Progressive Collapse," (in preparation).
                           
                           
                           - Ismail, A., Abdelnaby, A. (2014) "High Resolution Seismic Investigation of a Structural Failure in South Illinois,
                              USA", submitted for review.
                           
                           
                           Conference Publications
                           
                           - Abdelnaby, A. , and Elnashai, A. (2010) "Response of RC Buildings under Multiple Earthquakes", the
                              7th International Conference on Urban Earthquake Engineering & 5th International Conference
                              on Earthquake Engineering, Tokyo, March 2010.
                           
                           
                           - Abdelnaby, A. , Frankie, T., and Spencer, B. (2012) "Hybrid Simulation Modeling of a Curved Bridge",
                              Design and Modeling in Science, Education, and Technology, Orlando, FL.
                           
                           
                           - Abdelnaby, A. (2012) "Performance of RC buildings under the March 11 Earthquakes in Japan," Earthquake
                              Engineering Research Institute, Memphis, TN.
                           
                           
                           - Abdelnaby, A. , and Amr Elnashai (2012) "Response of Degrading RC Frames Under Replicate Motions",
                              the 15th World Conference in Earthquake Engineering, Lisbon, Portugal, September 2012.
                              view article online
                           
                           - Frankie, T., Abdelnaby, A. , Silva, P. (2013) "Hybrid Simulation of Curved Four-Span Bridge: Comparison of Numerical
                              and Hybrid Experimental/Analytical Results and Methods of Numerical Model Calibration,"
                              Structures Congress, Pittsburg, PA, pp. 721-732. view article online
                           
                           - Abdelnaby, A. (2013) "Methods of Bridge Numerical Model Calibration Using Hybrid Simulation," Quake
                              summit, Nevada, Reno. 1
                           
                           
                           - Assadollahi, A., Abdelnaby, A. (2014) "Improved Student Understanding of Materials and Structures through Non-Traditional
                              Laboratory Project," American Society of Engineering Eduction (Southeastern Section),
                              Macon, GA. view article online
                           
                           - Abdelnaby, A. , Raji, F., Yohannes, A., Naimi, A., Mishra, S., Golias, M. (2014) "Impacts of the
                              1811-1812 Earthquakes on Existing Transportation Networks in Memphis Area." Tenth
                              U.S. National Conference on Earthquake Engineering, Anchorage, AK. view article online
                           
                           - Hosseinpour, F., Abdelnaby, A. (2015) "Statistical Investigation of the Behavior of FRP Confined Concrete Prisms
                              Based on Experimental Data," Structures Congress, Portland, OR, pp. 2260-2271.
                           
                           
                           - Movaghati, S., Abdelnaby, A. (2015) "Semi-rigid Steel Connection with Self-centering System," Structures Congress,
                              Portland, OR.
                           
                           
                           - Hosseinpour, F., Abdelnaby, A. (2015) "Statistical Evaluation of the Compressive Strength Models for FRP Confined
                              Concrete Rectangular Prisms using Experimental Data," Earthquake Engineering Research
                              Institute, Boston, MA.
                           
                           
                           - Movaghati, S., Abdelnaby, A. (2015) "Experimental and Numerical Analysis of Semi-rigid Connections with and without
                              Self-centering Devices," Earthquake Engineering Research Institute, Boston, MA.
                           
                           
                           - Ghaffari, Y., Pezeshk, S., Abdelnaby, A. (2015) "Improved Value for Load Increase Factor in Disproportionate Collapse," Structures
                              Congress, Portland, OR.
                           
                           
                           - Movaghati, S., Abdelnaby, A. (2016) "Use of self-centering system to retrofit steel flexible moment connections,"
                              Geo-Structures Congress, Phoenix, AZ.
                           
                           
                           - Hosseinpur, F., Abdelnaby, A. (2016) "Inelastic behavior of structures under multiple earthquakes," Geo-Structures
                              Congress, Phoenix, AZ.
                           
                           
                           - Rostamiam, M., Abdelnaby, A. (2016) "Reliability analysis of steel frames under earthquake loading using Meta-models,"
                              Joint Engineering Mechanics Insitute and Probablistic Mechanics & Reliability Conference,
                              Vanderbilt, TN.
                           
                           
                           - Abdelnaby, A. (2010) "Material Model Implementation in Zeus-NL", Mid America Earthquake Center,
                              Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign,
                              http://code.google.com/p/zeus-nl/wiki/06MaterialModelImplementation
                           
                           - Abdelnaby, A. (October, 2011) "Earthquake Magnitude and Energy Release", AAAEA Newsletter, Chicago,
                              IL.
                           
                           
                           Current and Previous Students
                           
                           Sepehr Movaghati (PhD ~ 2016) email: smvghati@memphis.edu research topic: Semi-rigid Steel Connections with Self-Centering Devices
                           
                           
                           Farid Hosseinpour (PhD ~ 2017) email: hosseinpour.farid@gmail.com research topic: Multiple Earthquake Effects on reinforced concrete Structures
                           
                           
                           Mehdi Rostamian (PhD ~ 2017) email: rostamian.eng@gmail.com research topic: Reliability analysis of steel frames under earthquake loading using
                              Meta-models
                           
                           
                           Varshitha Avula (MSc ~ 2016) email: vyavula@memphis.edu research topic: Innovation in Design and Analysis of Steel Connections
                           
                           
                           Colton Baker (MSc ~ 2017) email: cbaker7@memphis.edu research topic: Nondestructive Testing of Infrastructure using GPR
                           
                           
                           Charles Armour (MSc ~ 2016, co-advised) email: carmour1@memphis.edu research topic: Optimization of Drilled Shafts
                           
                           
                           Sean Pezeshk (MSc ~ 2016, co-advised) email: smpzeshk@memphis.edu research topic: Post-tensioned Wood Frames
                           
                           
                           Cagatay Toros (MSc ~ 2015, co-advised: ITU) email: cagataytoros@gmail.com research topic: Capacity Assessment of 3D RC Structures under Multiple Earthquake
                              Excitations
                           
                           
                           Opportunities for Prospective Students
                           
                           Teaching and research assistant positions are available. Dr. Abdelnaby welcomes inquires
                              from students interested in pursuing a graduate study in Civil Engineering at The
                              University of Memphis. Preference will be given to students who are interested in
                              a PhD degree (having an MS degree is not required).
                           
                           
                           If you are interested, please contact Dr. Abdelnaby from the contact information provided
                              above. Please see Department's website for more information regarding the application
                              and admission process:  http://www.memphis.edu/ce
                           
                           Teaching
                           Courses Taught as an Assistant Professor (University of Memphis)
                           
                           
                              
                              Nonlinear Analysis of Structures
                              
                              Structural Analysis II and Introduction to Finite Element Method
                              
                              Earthquake Resistant Design
                              
                              Mechanics of Materials
                              
                              Mechanics of Materials Lab
                              
                              Design of Steel Structures
                              
                              Intermediate Design of Steel Structures
                              
                           
                           
                           Courses Taught as a TA (University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and Cairo University)
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              Fundamentals of Earthquake Engineering (course was taught on-campus and online),
                              
                              Steel Structures I,
                              
                              Steel Structures II,
                              
                              Steel Bridges,
                              
                              High Rise Steel Buildings,
                              
                              Steel Structures and Bridges Senior Graduation Project
                              
                           
                           
                           Teaching Honors and Awards
                           
                           
                           A. Engaged Learning Fellowship: Dr. Abdelnaby was awarded the Engaged Learning Fellowship. The funding from this fellowship
                              was used to redesign his undergraduate steel design class (CIVL 3131) for spring 2015,
                              to a practice-oriented course with the objective of developing strong ties between
                              the University of Memphis students and local structural engineering consultants in
                              the Memphis Area. The interaction between local engineering professionals and University
                              students is considered a win/win situation for both the University of Memphis and
                              the community.
                           
                           
                           B. American Institute Steel Construction Educator Workshop Dr. Abdelnaby was awarded to attend the American Institute of Steel Construction (AISC)
                              Educator Workshop. This award includes all travel expenses to the workshop including
                              travel, teaching aids and materials, meals and hotel. Dr. Abdelnaby shared his experience
                              in teaching undergraduate and graduate classes on steel behavior and design. The workshop
                              was held in Chicago on July 30-31, 2014.
                           
                           
                           Testing Facility
                           
                           Multi-Axial Testing and Simulation (MAT-SIM) Facility
                           
                           The following is a description of the features of the MAT-SIM facility at the University
                                 of Memphis. The facility is designed and established by Dr. Abdelnaby in 2013. The
                                 facility is funded by FedEx Institute of Technology through the research and innovation
                                 grant, which the applicant was its only Principle Investigator.
                           
                           MAT-SIM Facility Overview In the MAT-SIM facility at the University of Memphis, full- and small-scale structures
                              or structural sub-assemblages are tested under complex loading and deformation states
                              at multiple connection points on the structural specimen, including the connection
                              between the structure and its foundation.
                           
                           
                           Principle Components and Information The MAT-SIM facility includes (Figure 1 and Figure 2):
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              Two Linear (ShoreWestern) Actuators capable of imposing any displacement and/or force
                                 on structural components. The force and stroke capacities of the actuators are +/-
                                 24 kips and +/- 10 inches. The tests conducted by these actuators could be displacement
                                 control, force control or mixed (displacement and force) mode control.
                              
                              
                              One dynamic actuator5.5 kip (25 kN) fatigue rated, oversized non-metallic bearings,
                                 one-piece, double ended 1¾ inch (44.4 mm) alloy piston rod, and concentrically mounted
                                 internal LVDT. Trunnion and swivel dual mounting.
                              
                              
                              Strong reaction frame: The facility is equipped with a strong reaction steel frame
                                 which enables testing of full-scale sub-structures. The frame can handle high static
                                 and dynamic forces with minimal/negligible deformations. The actuators are mounted
                                 to the strong frame (as shown in Figure 2) at one end and to the tested specimen at
                                 the other end. The strong reaction frame provides almost infinite stiffness and strength
                                 and enables testing of stiff specimens of high force capacities.
                              
                              
                              An 11 gpm (ShoreWestern) pump: the pump provides actuators with oil to impose force
                                 and/or displacement.
                              
                              
                              ShoreWestern Controller: the controller controls the flow of oil from the pump to
                                 the actuator to achieve the targeted displacement and/or forces during the test. The
                                 controller software is capable of imposing static as well as dynamic target forces/displacements
                                 to the tested specimen with very high precision.
                              
                              
                              Data acquisition system (DAQ): include advanced measurement systems of strains, displacements
                                 and slippage at critical locations of the specimen. The DAQ consists of the software
                                 (from National Instruments) which is capable of not only recording the test data but
                                 also post-process the data and provide results in different formats. The software
                                 can handle up to 80 channels. DAQ also includes strain gauges, potentiometers, LVDTS
                                 and load cells. Data Acquisition system also includes high resolution cameras and
                                 image processing software capable to capture deformation on the micro-scale of the
                                 tested structural component.
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        								
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        	
                     
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Civil News and Newsletter
                              Check out the latest news!
                           
                           
                              Give to Civil Engineering
                              Shape the future of Civil Engineering today!
                           
                           
                              Forms
                              All Civil Engineering forms in one place!
                           
                           
                              Visit Civil Engineering!
                              A place where we can help you achieve your dreams!
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 11/8/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/ce/people/bdelnaby.php
