http://www.memphis.edu/ce/people/darellan.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Civil Engineering
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Future Students
                        Current Students
                        Research
                        People
                        About
                        Accreditation
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Civil Engineering
                              	
                        
                              	People
                              	
                        Dr. David Arellano
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        	
                        
                        		  
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                                                  
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Dr. David Arellano
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Associate Professor, Civil Engineering
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Phone
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                          (901) 678-3272
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Email
                                       
                                       darellan@memphis.edu
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Fax
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                          (901) 678-3026 
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Office
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                          Engineering Science Building, Room 112-A 
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Office Hours
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    										
                                    
                                    
                                                                            
                                    
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           			 
                           			  
                           
                           
                           OVERVIEW
                           
                           Dr. David Arellano has been an assistant and associate professor in the Department
                              of Civil Engineering at the University of Memphis since August 2005. Previously, he
                              worked in private practice for nearly ten years for several geotechnical engineering
                              consulting firms and performed geotechnical engineering studies for both commercial
                              and residential projects that included planning and performing subsurface explorations;
                              planning and performing laboratory testing; and performing analyses for slope stability,
                              foundation design, earth retaining structure design, and site and soil improvement.
                           
                           
                           In addition to private practice, he was an officer in the Corps of Engineers in the
                              U.S. Army Reserve for nearly 23 years and retired at the rank of Major. During his
                              23 years of military reserve service, he was involved in various construction projects
                              to include projects in American Samoa, Panama, Jordan, Kenya, and Germany. He was
                              deployed to Kuwait for 1 year as part of Operation Iraqi/Enduring Freedom from 2003
                              to 2004. Military projects involved providing engineer support to base camps supporting
                              over 40,000 deployed soldiers. Dr. Arellano provided recommendations for base camp
                              site selection, construction, maintenance, and repair, as well as base camp closure
                              planning, execution, and oversight. He was responsible for managing engineer projects
                              conducted by host nation contractors and theater engineer assets.
                           
                           
                           He obtained both his undergraduate and graduate degrees from the University of Illinois
                              in Champaign. Dr. Arellano is a licensed Professional Engineer in Wisconsin (active)
                              and Illinois (inactive).
                           
                           
                           Dr. Arellano's research focus areas are use of geofoam to improve ground conditions
                              and natural hazard mitigation. He is an expert in geofoam usage as demonstrated by
                              his over $690,000 of grant funding he has received to pursue geofoam related research,
                              nearly 30 publications and reports, and nearly 40 conference, university, and industry
                              presentations related to geofoam. He has received over $100,000 in grant funding related
                              to his natural hazard mitigation focus area.
                           
                           
                           EDUCATION
                           
                           • Ph.D., Civil Engineering (Geotechnical Engineering Concentration), University of
                              Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 2005 • M.S., Civil Engineering, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 1998 • B.S., Civil Engineering, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 1986
                           
                           
                           ACADEMIC EXPERIENCE AND APPOINTMENTS
                           
                           • 2011 – present Associate Professor, University of Memphis, Department of Civil Engineering • 2005 – 2011 Assistant Professor, University of Memphis, Department of Civil Engineering
                           
                           
                           OTHER PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
                           
                           • 1988 – 1996 Geotechnical Engineer and Assistant Office Manager, Testing Service
                              Corporation, Carol Stream and Tinley Park, Illinois • 1987 – 1988 Staff Engineer, Geotechnical/ Construction Materials Engineering, Law Engineering, Columbia, Maryland • 1986 – 1987 Civil Engineer, Bevins Consultants Incorporated, Chicago, Illinois
                           
                           
                           MILITARY SERVICE
                           
                           • 2003 – 2004 Active Duty: Project Engineer, Operation Iraqi Freedom (Kuwait), U.S.
                              Army Facility Engineer Group, Facility Engineer Team 7 • 1982 – 2006 Reserve Duty: Officer (2nd Lieutenant through Major), U.S. Army Reserve,
                              Corps of Engineers
                           
                           
                           TEACHING EXPERIENCE
                           
                           • Soil Mechanics (Undergraduate): Properties of soil and rock, including identification
                              and classification, hydraulic properties, consolidation characteristics, and stress
                              deformation-strength relationships. Three lecture hours. Three laboratory hours per
                              week. 4 semester credit hours. • Applied Soil Mechanics (Undergraduate & Graduate): Subsurface exploration, foundation
                              types, foundation construction, selection of foundation type and basis of design,
                              earth retaining structures, and slope stability. Three lecture hours per week. 3 semester
                              credit hours. • Foundation Analysis (Graduate): Analysis of footing, raft, pile, and pier foundations;
                              analysis of earth pressures on retaining walls, rigid bulkheads, flexible bulkheads,
                              and braced excavations. Three lecture hours per week. 3 semester credit hours. • Foundation Engineering (Graduate): Critical study of foundation design of completed
                              projects using case records; emphasis on failures and performance records. Three lecture
                              hours per week. 3 semester credit hours. • Shallow and Deep Foundations (Graduate): Analysis and design of footing, mat, pile,
                              and drilled-shaft foundations. Three lecture hours. 3 semester credit hours. • Earth Structures (Graduate): Analysis, design, and construction of earth dams, levees,
                              embankments and slopes; soil stabilization; seepage, drainage, and flow nets. Three
                              lecture hours. 3 semester credit hours. • Slopes and Embankments (Graduate): Analysis, design, and construction of earth dams,
                              levees, embankments and slopes; soil stabilization; seepage, drainage, and flow nets.
                              Three lecture hours. 3 semester credit hours. • Earth Retaining Structures (Graduate): Types of earth retaining structures. Retaining
                              wall selection. Lateral earth pressure theories. Design of conventional, MSE, soil-nailed,
                              and tied-back walls. Three lecture hours. 3 semester credit hours. • Soil and Site Improvement (Graduate): Geotechnical construction methods used to
                              alter and improve poor ground conditions in order that embankment and structure construction
                              can meet project performance requirements, where soil replacement is not feasible
                              for environmental or technical reasons, or it is too costly. Three lecture hours.
                              3 semester credit hours. • Soil Dynamics (Graduate): Theory and measurements of dynamic properties of soils
                              and their applications in seismic hazards assessments, earthquake engineering design,
                              and geophysics studies. Three lecture hours. 3 semester credit hours. • Professional Practice in Civil Engineering (Undergraduate): Elements of professional
                              practice in civil engineering, including basic concepts of management, business, public
                              policy, and leadership. Ethics, professionalism, and professional licensure. Two lecture
                              hours per week. 2 semester credit hours. • Civil Engineering Design (Undergraduate): Design of a civil engineering system.
                              Establishment of design objectives and criteria; synthesis and computer assisted analysis
                              of alternatives; selection of optimum system design; preparation of detailed system
                              descriptions including design sketches and engineering drawings and reports. Taken
                              in student's final semester. Two lecture hours. Two laboratory hours per week. 3 semester
                              credit hours. • Review of Engineer Fundamentals (Undergraduate): Review of general and civil engineering
                              topics in preparation for taking the NCEES Fundamentals of Engineering Exam. Six laboratory
                              hours a week for seven weeks. 1 semester credit hour. Note: Provided the geotechnical
                              engineering, construction, ethics, and professional practice review. • Civil Engineering Project (Undergraduate): Independent investigation of a Civil
                              Engineering problem in consultation with instructor. May be taken for a maximum of
                              3 hours credit toward graduation.
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Undergraduate Project, Soring 2014, Mr. Besmir Zenelaku, Self-Study of Shallow Foundations
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Undergraduate Independent Study, Spring 2013, Mr. Sam Jordan, Guidelines for Sustainable
                                    Infrastructure Design in Developing Nations
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Undergraduate Project, Fall 2012, Mr. Darin P. Nelson, Design of Shallow Foundations
                                    Using Load Resistance and Factor Design (LRFD)
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Undergraduate Independent Study, Spring 2011, Mr. Kevin D. Reynolds, Design of Crane
                                    Working Platforms
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Undergraduate Independent Study, January 2008 to December 2009, Mr. Justin D. Lester,
                                    Geotechnical Characteristics of Memphis Loess
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Undergraduate Independent Study, Spring 2007, 3 Hours, Mrs. Melanie Anderkin, The
                                    Loess Soil of Memphis, Tennessee: An Investigation into Loess Soil Classification
                                    and the Application of Load and Resistance Factor Design
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Honors Thesis (Undergraduate): Under the direction of a faculty member, the student
                                    writes and defends a thesis based upon background reading and research on a topic
                                    in civil engineering. 3 semester credit hours.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Honors Thesis Committee Chair, May 2010, Mr. Navid Jafari, Mechanical and Hydraulic
                                    Behavior of Geosynthetic Aggregate Drainage Systems and the Effectiveness of Geofoam
                                    as a Compressible Inclusion over Flexible Pipe
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 M.S. Project and Report (Graduate): Independent study for students in non-thesis option
                                    program. Students demonstrate ability to pursue, complete, and report on project related
                                    to Civil Engineering practice. Written and oral report prepared for acceptance by
                                    faculty committee. Nine laboratory hours per week. 3 semester credit hours.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           • Honors Thesis (Undergraduate): Under the direction of a faculty member, the student
                              writes and defends a thesis based upon background reading and research on a topic
                              in civil engineering. 3 semester credit hours.
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Honors Thesis Committee Chair, May 2010, Mr. Navid Jafari, Mechanical and Hydraulic
                                    Behavior of Geosynthetic Aggregate Drainage Systems and the Effectiveness of Geofoam
                                    as a Compressible Inclusion over Flexible Pipe
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           • M.S. Project and Report (Graduate): Independent study for students in non-thesis
                              option program. Students demonstrate ability to pursue, complete, and report on project
                              related to Civil Engineering practice. Written and oral report prepared for acceptance
                              by faculty committee. Nine laboratory hours per week. 3 semester credit hours.
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 M.S. Project and Report, April 2015, Mr. Nicholas A. Aleman, Bayou Meto, Canal 1000
                                    Phase 1 Stations 22+70 to 72+50 Geotechnical Design Report and Report for Project
                                    Class CIVL 7993
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 M.S. Project and Report, May 2010, Mr. Nicholas J. Bidlack, Mellwod Arkansas, Levee
                                    Re-Evaluation
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           • M.S. Thesis (Graduate): 1-6 semester credit hours.
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 M.S. Thesis Committee, present, Mr. Sean Pezeshk,
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Thesis Committee Chair, present, Mr. Luke J. Bailey, Comparison of the Measured and
                                    Predicted Shear Strength and Matric Suction of Unsaturated Memphis Loess
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 M.S. Thesis Committee, May 2014, Mr. Gregory Taylor Stinson, Maximum Collapse Potential
                                    of Remolded West Tennessee Loess
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 M.S. Thesis Committee, August 2012, Mr. Duncan B. Adrian, The Collapse Behavior of
                                    Compacted West Tennessee Loess
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 M.S. Thesis Committee, May 2009, Mr. Andrew Kizzee, Empirical Relationships To Estimate
                                    Shear-Wave Velocity Profiles From SPT Information In The New Madrid Seismic Zone
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Thesis Committee Chair, August 2009, Mr. John B. Tatum, Design of EPS-Block Geofoam
                                    Fills for Slope Stabilization
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           • Ph.D. Dissertation (Graduate): 1-12 semester credit hours.
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Doctoral Dissertation Committee, present, Mr. Farid Hosseinpour, Loss estimation and
                                    methods of retrofit for RC structures prone to earthquake sequences
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Doctoral Dissertation Committee Chair, August 2015, Mr. Chuanqi Wang, Characterizing,
                                    Testing, and Modeling the Mechanical Properties of Recycled-Content Expanded Polystyrene-Block
                                    Geofoam
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Doctoral Dissertation Committee Chair, August 2013, Mr. Masood Hassanzahed, Seismic
                                    Stability Analysis of Landslides Stabilized with Expanded Polystyrene (EPS)-Block
                                    Geofoam
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Doctoral Dissertation Committee, May 2013, Mr. Mojtaba Malek, Statistical Study of
                                    Ground motion amplification in the Mississippi embayment
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Doctoral Dissertation Committee, May 2010, Mr. Scott Stovall, An Improved Method for
                                    the Identification and Inversion of Multi-Mode Rayleigh Surface Wave Dispersion Collected
                                    From Non-Uniform Arrays Utilizing a Moving Source Approach
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Doctoral Dissertation Committee, December 2009, Mr. Ali Shahbazien, Spectrum Matching
                                    of Recorded Ground Motions with Improved Velocity and Displacement Time Histories
                                    in Frequency Space
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           • Seminar in Geology (Graduate): Provided geotechnical engineering subsurface exploration
                              portion of the seminar. 3 semester credit hours.
                           
                           
                           PUBLICATIONS
                           
                           Peer-Reviewed Journal Publications Neupane, R., Bartlett, S.F., Arellano, D. , Farnsworth, C.B. (2015). "Dynamic Deflection Monitoring of EPS Embankment Supporting
                              Railway Systems," Geotextiles and Geomembranes, Elsevier Ltd, (Submitted & in review
                              for publication consideration). A. Tolga Özer, Onur Akay, Garey A. Fox, Steven F. Bartlett, David Arellano (2014). "A new method for remediation of sandy slopes susceptible to seepage flow
                              using EPS-block geofoam," Geotextiles and Geomembranes, Elsevier Ltd, 42, pp. 166-180. Onur Akay, A. Tolga Özer, Garey A. Fox, Steven F. Bartlett, David Arellano (2013). "Behavior of sandy slopes remediated by EPS-block geofoam under seepage flow,"
                              Geotextiles and Geomembranes, Elsevier Ltd, 37, pp. 81-98. Van Arsdale, R.B., Arellano, D. , Stevens, K.C., Hill, A.A., Lester, J.D., Parks, A.G., Csontos, R.M., Rapino, M.A.,
                              Deen, T.S., Woolery, E.W., Harris, J.B. (2012). "Geology, Geotechnical Engineering,
                              and Natural Hazards of Memphis, Tennessee, USA," Environmental & Engineering Geoscience,
                              Association of Environmental & Engineering Geologists and Geological Society of America,
                              Vol. XVIII, No. 2, May 2012, pp. 113-158. Arellano, D. , Tatum, J.B., Stark, T.D., Horvath, J.S., Leshchinsky, D. (2010). "A Framework for
                              the Design Guideline for EPS-Block Geofoam in Slope Stabilization and Repair," Transportation
                              Research Record, Journal of the Transportation Research Board, Transportation Research
                              Board of the National Academies, Washington D.C., No. 2170, pp.100-108. Stark, T.D., Arellano, D. , Hillman, R.P., Hughes, R.M., Joyal, N., and Hillebrandt, D. (2005). "Investigating
                              and Diagnosing a Deep-Seated Landslide," Journal of Performance of Constructed Facilities,
                              ASCE, Vol. 19, No. 3, August, pp. 244-255. Stark, T.D., Arellano, D. , Evans, W.D., Wilson, V.L., and Gonda, J.M. (1998). "Unreinforced Geosynthetic Clay
                              Liner Case History," Geosynthetics International Journal, IFAI, Vol. 5, No.5, pp.
                              521-544.
                           
                           
                           Peer-Reviewed Conference Publication s
                           
                           
                           Wang, C., Arellano, D. , Meier, R.W. (2016). Creep Behavior of Recycled-Content Expanded Polystyrene Geofoam
                              Under Compressive Loading, Proceedings of Geo-Chicago 2016: Sustainability, Energy
                              and the Geoenvironment, To be held August 14-18, 2016 (Accepted for publication and
                              presentation). Ashraf Elsayed, Craig Kaibel, Ian Engstrom, David Arellano. (2015). "High-Strain Dynamic Pile Testing for the I-40/I-240 Interchange in Memphis,
                              Tennessee," International Foundations Congress and Equipment EXPO (IFCEE), March 17-21,
                              2015, San Antonio, Texas, ASCE, Reston, VA, pp. 1006-1020. Bartlett, S., Arellano, D. , Vaslestad, J., and Ahmed, T. (2014). "Bridge foundations supported by EPS geofoam
                              embankments on soft soil," Proceedings of the 10th International Conference on Geosynthetics,
                              September 21-25, 2014, Berlin, Germany. Wang, C., Arellano, D. (2014). "Are the mechanical properties of recycled-content expanded polystyrene (EPS)
                              comparable to non-recycled EPS geofoam?" Proceedings of the 2014 Geo-Congress, Geo-Characterization
                              and Modeling for Sustainability, Atlanta, GA, Geotechnical Special Publication No.
                              234 and 235, ASCE. Kafash, M.H., Arellano, D. , D., Hosseini, S.M., Pezeshk, S., (2013). "Feasibility of MASW (Multi-Channel Analysis
                              of Surface Waves) for Evaluating the Dynamic Properties of Geofoam," Proceedings of
                              Geosynthetics 2013, Long Beach, CA. April 1-3, 2013. Wang, C., Arellano, D. , Ladely, L., and Koerner, D.W. (2013). "Preliminary Assessment of the Mechanical
                              Properties of Recycled-Content Expanded Polystyrene (EPS) Block Geofoam," Proceedings
                              of Geosynthetics 2013, Long Beach, CA, April 1-3, 2013. Kafash, M.H. and Arellano, D. (2013). "Seismic Stability Analysis of Slopes Stabilized with EPS-Block Geofoam,"
                              Proceedings of the 2013 GeoCongress: Stability and Performance of Slopes and Embankments
                              III, San Diego, CA, March 3-7, 2013, Edited by C.L. Meehan, D. Pradel, M.A. Pando,
                              J.F. Labuz, Geotechnical Special Publication No. 231, ASCE, Reston, VA, p. 1736-1739.
                           
                           
                           Arellano, D. , Stark, T.D., Horvath, J.S., Leshinsky, D., Kafash, M.H., Wang, C. (2011). "Overview
                              of NCHRP Design Guideline for EPS-Block Geofoam in Slope Stabilization," Proceedings
                              of the 4th International Conference on the use of Geofoam Blocks in Construction Applications,
                              EPS 2011 Norway, June 5-8, 2011. Arellano, D. (2010). "Preliminary Design Procedure for EPS-Block Geofoam Lightweight Fill in Levees
                              Overlying Soft Ground," Proceedings of the Association of State Dam Safety Officials
                              2010 Dam Safety Conference, September 19-23, 2010, Seattle, Washington. Arellano, D. and Stark, T.D. (2009). "Load Bearing Analysis of EPS-Block Geofoam Embankments,"
                              Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on Bearing Capacity of Roads, Railways
                              and Airfields, E. Tutumluer & I.L. Al-Qadi (eds), CRC Press/Balkema, The Netherlands,
                              Vol. 2, pp. 981-990. Arellano, D. , Zarrabi, M., Jafari, N.H., and Bailey, L.J. (2009). "Geosynthetic Aggregate Drainage
                              Systems: Preliminary Large-Scale Laboratory Test Results for Expanded Recycled Polystyrene,"
                              Proceedings of the Geosynthetics 2009 & GRI-22 Conference, Salt Lake City, Utah (CD-ROM),
                              February 25-27, 2009, IFAI, Roseville, MN. Arellano, D. (2007). "Consideration of Differential Icing Conditions in the Design of Pavement
                              Systems Overlying Geofoam Lightweight Fills," Compendium of Papers of the TRB 86th
                              Annual Meeting, Washington D.C., January 21-25, (CD-ROM). Arellano, D. and Stark, T.D. (2000). "Importance of Three-Dimensional Slope Stability in Practice,"
                              Slope Stability 2000, Proceedings of Sessions of Geo-Denver 2000: August 5-8, 2000,
                              ASCE, Reston, VA, pp. 18-32.
                           
                           
                           Project Reports
                           
                           Cramer H., Patterson, G, Arellano, D. (2015). "Updating Liquefaction Probability Curves, Seismic Hazard Model, and Urban
                              Seismic Hazard Maps with Public Outreach for Memphis and Shelby County, Tennessee,
                              Final Technical Report U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) Award Number G14AP00099, USGS,
                              Department of Interior. Arellano, D. , Bartlett, S.F., Neupane, R., Li, S. (2015). "Preliminary Evaluation of Geofoam for
                              Support of Freight Rail Tracks," The Intermodal Freight Transportation Institute (IFTI). Arellano, D. , Guy, M. (2014). "Lochnevin Dam Draft Operations & Maintenance Manual for Review
                              & Comments," Prepared for Scenic Hills Neighborhood Association Dam Maintenance Ad
                              Hoc Committee. Arellano, D. , Stark, T.D., Horvath, J.S., Leshchinsky, D. (2013). "Guidelines for Geofoam Applications
                              in Slope Stability Projects." NCHRP Research Results Digest 38 , Transportation Research Board, Washington, D.C., 26 pp. Available at http://www.trb.org/main/blurbs/168692.aspx . Stark, T.D., Bartlett, S.F., and Arellano, D. (2012). "Expanded Polystyrene (EPS) Geofoam Applications & Technical Data", The EPS
                              Industry Alliance, Crofton, MD. Available at http://www.geofoam.com/downloads/brochure/EPS%20Geofoam%20Applications%20&%20Technical%20Data.pdf . Arellano, D. , Stark, T.D., Horvath, J.S., Leshchinsky, D. (2011). "Guidelines for Geofoam Applications
                              in Slope Stability Projects." NCHRP Project 24-11(02) Final Report, Transportation
                              Research Board, Washington, D.C., 602 pp. Available at http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/nchrp/docs/NCHRP24-11(02)_FR.pdf . Elsayed, A., Pezeshk, S., Arellano, D. (2011). "Geotechnical Seismic Manual," Draft report prepared for Tennessee Department
                              of Transportation, Division of Materials and Tests, Geotechnical Section. Stark, T.D., Arellano, D. , Horvath, J.S., and Leshchinsky, D. (2004). "NCHRP Report 529: Guideline and Recommended
                              Standard for Geofoam Applications in Highway Embankments," Transportation Research
                              Board, Washington, D.C., 71 pp. Available at http://trb.org/publications/nchrp/nchrp_rpt_529.pdf . Stark, T.D., Arellano, D. , Horvath, J.S., and Leshchinsky, D. (2004). "NCHRP Web Document 65 (Project 24-11):
                              Geofoam Applications in the Design and Construction of Highway Embankments," Transportation
                              Research Board, Washington, D.C., 792 pp. Available at http://trb.org/publications/nchrp/nchrp_w65.pdf .  Non-Peer-Reviewed Publications
                           
                           Arellano, D. and Anderkin, M.R. (2008). "Preliminary Loess Undrained Shear Strength Resistance
                              Factors for Use in Load and Resistance Factor Design," Proceedings of the 41st Annual
                              Symposium on Geological Engineering and Geotechnical Engineering, (CD-ROM), T. Weaver
                              and S. Sharma (eds), Boise, Idaho, April 9-11, 2008. Arellano, D. , Aabøe, R., and Stark, T.D. (2001). "Comparison of Existing EPS-Block Geofoam Creep
                              Models with Field Measurements," Proceedings of EPS Geofoam 2001 3rd International Conference: December 10-12, 2001,
                                 Salt Lake City, Utah (CD-ROM) , Geofoam Research Center, Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY. Arellano, D. and Stark, T.D. (2001). "Overview of the NCHRP Project Provisional Specification,"
                              Proceedings of EPS Geofoam 2001 3rd International Conference: December 10-12, 2001,
                                 Salt Lake City, Utah (CD-ROM) , Geofoam Research Center, Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY.
                           
                           
                           PRESENTATIONS
                           
                           Conferences (Oral & Poster) • Dhar, M., Cramer, C.H., Arellano, D. , "Updated Memphis Area Urban Seismic and Liquefaction Hazard Maps," 2015 Eastern
                              Section- Seismological Society of America Annual Meeting, October 7, 2015, Memphis,
                              TN (POSTER). • Dhar, M., Cramer, C.H., Arellano, D. , "Updating the Memphis Area Urban Seismic and Liquefaction Hazard Maps," 2015 Seismological
                              Society of America Annual Meeting, April 23, 2015, Pasadena, California, [abstract:
                              SRL 86:2B, p. 713] Available at http://www.seismosoc.org/meetings/ssa2015/abstracts/ (POSTER) • Arellano, D. , Kafash M.H., "Seismic Stability Analysis of Slopes Stabilized with Expanded Polystyrene
                              Block Geofoam," Presented at the 2013 ASCE Tennessee Section Annual Meeting, Murfreesboro,
                              TN, September 13, 2013. • Kafash, M.H, Arellano, D. , "Pseudo Dynamic Seismic Analysis of EPS Geofoam Embankments Used in Slope Stabilization
                              and Repair," Annual Meeting of the Earthquake Engineering Research Institute (EERI),
                              Feb. 12-15, 2013, Seattle, Washington (POSTER). • Kafash, M.H, Arellano, D. , Hosseini, S.M., Pezeshk, S., "Evaluation the Large Scale Dynamic Properties of EPS
                              Geofoam Material," USUCGER First Early Career Geotechnical Engineering Conference,
                              July 8, 2012, Boston, MA (POSTER). • Kafash, M.H, Arellano, D. , "A Practical Design Example of Seismic Stability Analysis of Landslides Stabilized
                              with Expanded Polystyrene (EPS)-Block Geofoam," Annual Meeting of the Earthquake Engineering
                              Research Institute (EERI), 2012 (POSTER). • Kafash, M.H, Arellano, D. , "A Framework for Seismic Stability Analysis of Landslides Stabilized with Expanded
                              Polystyrene (EPS)-Block Geofoam," Annual Meeting of the Earthquake Engineering Research
                              Institute (EERI), February 9-12, 2011, San Diego, California (POSTER). • "Overview of NCHRP Design Guideline for EPS-Block Geofoam in Slope Stabilization,"
                              Presented at the 4th International Conference on the use of Geofoam Blocks in Construction
                              Applications, EPS 2011 Norway, June 5-8, 2011. • "Preliminary Design Procedure for EPS-Block Geofoam Lightweight Fill in Levees Overlying
                              Soft Ground," Presented at the Association of State Dam Safety Officials 2010 Dam
                              Safety Conference, September 19-23, 2010, Seattle, Washington. • "A Pilot Study Utilizing One-Dimensional Consolidation Tests to Estimate the Original
                              Thickness of the Upland Complex in Desoto County, Mississippi," Markin, J.K., Arellano, D. , Van Arsdale, R.B., Tatum, J. B., Presented at the North-Central Section and South-Central
                              Section 44th Annual Joint Meeting, April 13, 2010, Branson, MO, The Geological Society
                              of America Abstracts with Programs, Vol. 42, No. 2., p. 100 (POSTER). • "Importance of Three-Dimensional Slope Stability in Practice," Presented at the
                              Geo-Institute of the American Society of Civil Engineers Geo-Denver Conference, Denver,
                              CO, August 6, 2000. • "A Framework for the Design Guideline for EPS-Block Geofoam in Slope Stabilization
                              and Repair," Presented at the 89th Annual Meeting of the Transportation Research Board,
                              Washington, D.C., January 12, 2010. • "Lightweight Fill for Slope Stabilization and Repair," Presented at the ASCE Tennessee
                              Section 22nd Annual Meeting, Smyrna, TN, October 2, 2009. • "Load Bearing Analysis of EPS-Block Geofoam Embankments," Arellano, D. , Stark, T.D., Presented at the 8th International Conference on Bearing Capacity of
                              Roads, Railways and Airfields, Champaign, Illinois, June 29-July 2, 2009. • "Geosynthetic Aggregate Drainage Systems: Preliminary Large-Scale Laboratory Test
                              Results for Expanded Recycled Polystyrene," Arellano, D ., Zarrabi, M., Jafari, N.H., Bailey, L.J., Presented at Geosynthetics 2009, Salt
                              Lake City, Utah, February 25-27, 2009. • "Consideration of Differential Icing Conditions in the Design of Pavement Systems
                              Overlying Geofoam Lightweight Fills," Presented at the Transportation Research Board
                              86th Annual Meeting, Washington D.C., January 24, 2007. • "Lightweight Fill Applications in Road Embankments," Presented at ASCE Tennessee
                              Section 19th Annual Meeting, Smyrna, TN, October 13, 2006. Universities & Industry & Workshops • "Expanded Polystyrene (EPS) Geofoam in Transportation Applications, Department of
                              Transport Ministry, Delhi, India, October 16, 2015. • "Geofoam Basic Concepts & Applications," Presented as part of EPS Geofoam in Transportation
                              Applications, Central Road Research Institute (CRRI), Delhi, India, October 15, 2015. • "Geofoam Basic Concepts & Applications," Presented as part of EPS Geofoam in Transportation
                              Applications, Mumbai, India, October 12, 2015. • "Promoting EPS Geofoam Technology for Civil Engineering Applications," Presented
                              at Supreme Petrochem Ltd., Mumbai, India, October 11, 2015. • "Geotechnical Scope: Updating Liquefaction Probability Curves," Presented at the
                              Memphis Area Earthquake Hazards Mapping Project Workshop, Memphis, TN, July 28, 2015. • "Geofoam Use in Residential Development Projects: Basic Concepts & Applications,"
                              Presented as part of Future House Lab Seminar, Aula Aguascalientes, Mexico, June 16,
                              2015. • "Geofoam Basic Concepts & Applications," Presented as part of Geofoam Seminar, Mexico
                              City, Mexico, February 14, 2015. • "Implementing EPS Geofoam Technology for Civil Engineering Applications," Presented
                              at the XI Seminario Internacional de EPS, Budapest, Hungary, September 8, 2014. • "Proyectos de Ingeniería Civil," Presented at the Ministerio de Transporte y Obras
                              Públicas, Quito, Ecuador, June 26, 2014. • "EPS Geofoam: Current & Future Trends in Infrastructure Projects," Presented at
                              the Kurtz Ersa 3rd Educational Seminar for the Americas, Cancún, México, May 22, 2014. • "EPS Geofoam: Current & Future Trends in Infrastructure Projects," Presented at
                              the EPS EXPO 2014, San Antonio, TX, March 13, 2014. • "Poliestireno Expandido," Presented to Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transportes
                              (SCT) and Caminos y Puentes Federales de Ingresos y Servicios Conexos (CAPUFE), Mexico
                              City, Mexico, February 18, 2014. • "Poliestireno Expandido," Presented to Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transportes
                              (SCT) and Caminos y Puentes Federales de Ingresos y Servicios Conexos (CAPUFE), Tijuana,
                              Mexico, February 19, 2014. • "Curso de Uso de Geo Espumas en Ingenieria Geotecnica," Presented at the Universidad
                              Nacional de Loja, Loja, Ecuador, February 7, 2014. • Invited by Federal Highway Administration Office of Technical Services-Resource
                              Center to participate in a peer to peer technology meeting about green initiatives
                              in transportation during the 89th Annual Meeting of the Transportation Research Board,
                              Washington, D.C., January 12, 2010. • "Lightweight Fill in Road Embankments," Presented to employees of Askew Hargraves
                              Harcourt & Associates, Inc., January 6, 2010. • "Advancements and Developments," Invited presenter to the National Highway Institute
                              Web Conference titled Advancements in EPS Geofoam for Transportation Applications,
                              October 7, 2009. • "Use of Expanded-Polystyrene (EPS) Block Geofoam for the Lightweight Fill Function
                              for Levees," Presented to the New Orleans District of the Army Corps of Engineers,
                              New Orleans, LA, October 24, 2008. • "Lightweight Fill Materials for Road Embankment Projects," Presented to The University
                              of Memphis Student Chapter of the American Society of Civil Engineers and Institute
                              of Transportation Engineers, October 31, 2007. • "Lightweight Fill Applications in Road Embankments," Presented as part of the Geotechnical
                              Engineering Seminar at the University of Missouri-Rolla, October 5, 2007. • "Introduction to Geosynthetic Gravel (GSG) for Drainage Applications," Presented
                              to the Ring Industrial Group Sales Meeting, Memphis, TN, May 15, 2007. • "Guidelines for Geofoam Applications in Embankment Projects NCHRP Project No. 24-11,"
                              Presented to the Transportation Research Board Committee on Transportation Earthworks
                              (A2K02), January 13, 2003. • "Lightweight Fill Materials for Road Embankment Projects," Presented to the Illinois
                              Valley Branch and Bradley University Student Chapter of the American Society of Civil
                              Engineers, March 13, 2002. • "Lightweight Fill Materials for Road Embankment Projects," Presented to the Illini
                              Post of the Society of American Military Engineers, August 21, 2001.
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        								
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        	
                     
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Civil News and Newsletter
                              Check out the latest news!
                           
                           
                              Give to Civil Engineering
                              Shape the future of Civil Engineering today!
                           
                           
                              Forms
                              All Civil Engineering forms in one place!
                           
                           
                              Visit Civil Engineering!
                              A place where we can help you achieve your dreams!
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 8/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/ce/people/darellan.php
