http://www.memphis.edu/ce/people/ssalyers.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Civil Engineering
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Future Students
                        Current Students
                        Research
                        People
                        About
                        Accreditation
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Civil Engineering
                              	
                        
                              	People
                              	
                        Dr. Stephanie Ivey
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        	
                        
                        		  
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                                                  
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Dr. Stephanie Ivey
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Associate Professor, Civil Engineering
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Phone
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                          (901) 678-3286
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Email
                                       
                                       ssalyers@memphis.edu
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Fax
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                          (901) 678-3026 
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Office
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                          Engineering Science Building - Room 108B
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Office Hours
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    										
                                    
                                    
                                    CVS
                                                                            
                                    
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           			 
                           			  
                           
                           
                           About Dr. Stephanie Ivey Dr. Stephanie Ivey is an Associate Professor with the Department of Civil Engineering
                              and Director of the Intermodal Freight Transportation Institute (www.memphis.edu/ifti)
                              and the Southeast Transportation Workforce Center (www.memphis.edu/setwc) at the University
                              of Memphis. Her research includes focus on community livability and transportation
                              planning and policy. She is the Project Director for the West Tennessee STEM Hub (www.westtnstem.org),
                              a regional K-12 outreach initiative. Ivey also has a lengthy and nationally recognized
                              research record focused on STEM and transportation education and workforce issues.
                               She is a member of the Tennessee STEM Leadership Council and the Federal Reserve
                              Bank of St. Louis Transportation Industry Council. She serves as faculty advisor for
                              the University of Memphis student chapters of WTS and the Institute of Transportation
                              Engineers and is active with the ITE Transportation Education Council.
                           
                           
                           Research Interests
                           
                           Community Livability • Impact of freight traffic on community livability. • School walking decisions and safety implications in freight-centric communities. Transportation policy/planning • Performance measure requirements of transportation legislation. • Data considerations in travel modeling and planning. • Increasing stakeholder engagement in transportation planning processes. Transportation workforce development • Increasing diversity in transportation. • Attracting and retaining transportation professionals. • Implementation of complicated material models in numerical tools for computer simulation. STEM Education • STEM student retention and persistence to graduation. • Strategies for increasing K-12 students' awareness of and preparation for STEM careers.
                           
                           
                           Selected Publications
                           
                           - Yang, Y., Ivey, S ., Levy, M., and Royne, M. (2016) "Active Travel to School: Findings from the Survey
                              of US Health Behavior in School-aged Children, 2009-2010." Journal of School Health,
                              Vol. 86, No. 6.
                           
                           
                           - Ivey, S ., Levy, M., Royne, M., Ford, K., Guthikonda, K. (2016) "Impact of Freight Traffic
                              on School Walking Decisions in Urban Environments." Journal of Transportation Management,
                              Vol. 25, No.2.
                           
                           
                           - Rapalo, V., Ivey, S. , Hart, M., Schroeckenthaler, K., and Adams, T. (2016) "Evaluation of Factors Affecting
                              Livablity in a Freight-Centric Community in Memphis, Tennessee." Proceedings of the
                              Transportation Research Board 95th Annual Meeting, Washington, DC, January 2016.
                           
                           
                           - Zhou, Y., and Ivey, S. (2016) "Liner Shipping Network Design of Inland and Sea Transportation Nodes: A Two-Stage
                              Programming Approach." Proceedings of the Transportation Research Board 95th Annual
                              Meeting, Washington, DC, January 2016.
                           
                           
                           - Fox, A., Stafford, M., Ivey, S. , and Levy, M. (In Press) "Marketing Active Transportation to School to Improve Children's
                              Health: Utilizing Parental Perspectives from an Inner-City Environment." Health Quarterly
                              Marketing. - Ivey, S. , Hall, A., Allen, L., and Bridson, P. (2015) "West TN STEM Hub: Cradle to Career
                              Collaborations for STEM." Critical Conversations: Journal of the Tennessee Board of
                              Regents. Vol. 1, Spring 2015. - Windsor, A., Bargagliotti, A., Best, R., Franceschetti, D., Haddock, J., Ivey, S. , and Russomanno, D. (2015) "Increasing retention in STEM: Results from a STEM Talent
                              Expansion Program at the University of Memphis." Journal of STEM Education, Vol. 15,
                              No. 2, pp. 11-19. - Ivey, S ., Golias, M., Palazolo, P., Ford, K., Wise, A., and Thomas, P. (2014) "Transportation
                              Engineering Careers: Strategies for Attracting Students to Transportation Professions."
                              Transportation Research Record, Journal of the Transportation Research Board, No.
                              2414. - Royne, M., Ivey, S. , Levy, M., Roakes, S., and Fox, A. (2014) "Parental Perspectives on Walking to School
                              in the Inner-City: Marketing Communications and Public Policy Implications." AMA Marketing
                              & Public Policy Conference, Boston, Massachusetts, June 2014. - Ivey, S. Golias, M., Palazolo, P., Ford, K., Wise, A., and Thomas, P. (2014) "Transportation
                              Engineering Careers (TREC): Program Evolution, Impact, and Lessons Learned." Proceedings
                              of the Transportation Research Board 93rd Annual Meeting, Washington, DC, January
                              2014. - Doherty, M., Hart, M., Adams, T., Wise, A., and Ivey, S. (2013) "Defining Livability for Freight-Centric Communities: Identifying Priorities
                              of Residents of the Lamar Avenue Corridor in Memphis, TN." Proceedings of the ASCE
                              2nd T&DI Green Streets, Highways and Development Conference, Austin, TX. - Ivey, S. , Best, R., Camp, C., and Palazolo, P. (2013) "Transforming a Civil Engineering Curriculum
                              Through GIS Integration." Proceedings of the 2013 NSF CCLI/TUES Conference, Washington,
                              DC, January 2013. - Turochy, R., Fricker, J., Hawkins, H.G., Hurwitz, D., Ivey, S. , Knodler, M., Young, R. (2013) "Assessment of Introductory Transportation Engineering
                              Course and General Transportation Engineering Curriculum." Proceedings of the Transportation
                              Research Board 92nd Annual Meeting, Washington, DC, January 2013. - Portal, I., Kaisar, E., Golias, M., Ivey, S. (2013) "Scheduling Container Vessels Under Handling and Arrival Time Uncertainty."
                              Proceedings of the Transportation Research Board 92nd Annual Meeting, Washington,
                              DC, January 2013. - Turochy, R., Fricker, J., Hawkins, H.G., Hurwitz, D., Ivey, S. , Knodler, M., Young, R. (2013) "Assessment of Introductory Transportation Engineering
                              Course and General Transportation Engineering Curriculum." Transportation Research
                              Record: Journal of the Transportation Research Board, No. 2328, Transportation Research
                              Board of the National Academies, Washington, DC, pp. 9-15. - Larsen, D., Morat, J., Waldron, B., Ivey, S. , and Anderson, J. (2013) "Stream loss contributions from Nonconnah Creek to the Shallow
                              and Memphis aquifers near the Sheahan well field, Memphis, TN." Environmental and
                              Engineering Geoscience, Vol. 19, No. 3, pp. 265-287. - Karafa, J. Golias, M., Ivey, S. , Saharidis, G., and Leonardos, N. "The berth allocation problem with stochastic vessel
                              handling times." International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology, Vol.
                              65, No. 1-3, Pp. 473-484. - Koban, J., Larsen, D., and Ivey, S. (2012) "Resolving the source and mixing proportions of modern leakage to the Memphis
                              aquifer in a municipal well field using geochemical and 3H/3He data, Memphis, TN,
                              USA." Environmental Earth Sciences, Vol. 66, Issue 1, pp. 295-310. - Ivey, S. , Badoe, D., and Edwards, S. (2012) "National Household Travel Survey Add-On Program:
                              Experience of Stakeholders and Best Practices for Maximizing Program Benefits." Transportation
                              Research Record, Journal of the Transportation Research Board, No. 2291, pp. 150-156. - Ivey, S. , Golias, M., Palazolo, P., Edwards, S., and Thomas, P. (2012) "Attracting Students
                              to Transportation Engineering: Gender Differences and Implications of Student Perceptions
                              of Transportation Engineering Careers." Transportation Research Record, Journal of
                              the Transportation Research Board, No. 2320. - Edwards, S., Ivey, S. , Lipinski, M., and Golias, M. (2012) "Bicycle and Pedestrian Studies Based on Data
                              from National Household Travel Survey." Transportation Research Record, Journal of
                              the Transportation Research Board, No. 2299. - Ivey, S. , Best, R., Camp, C., and Palazolo, P. (2012) "Transforming a Civil Engineering Curriculum
                              through GIS Integration." Proceedings of the 2012 ASEE Annual Conference, San Antonio,
                              TX. June 10-13, 2012. -Golias, M., Georgios, S., Ivey, S. , and Lipinski, M. (2012) "Scheduling Inbound Trucks at Cross-Dock Facilitiy Under
                              Truck Arrival Uncertainty." Proceedings of the Transportation Research Board 91st
                              Annual Meeting, Washington, DC, January 2012. -Jami, N., Ivey, S. , Lipinski, M., and Golias, M. (2012) "LED Traffic Signal Retrofits: Implications
                              for Intersection Safety." Proceedings of the Transportation Research Board 91st Annual
                              Meeting, Washington, DC, January 2012. -Royne, M., Ivey, S. , Levy, M., and Roakes, S. (2012) "Factors Affecting School Walking Decisions in an
                              Urban Environment: Implications for Public Health and Public Policy." Proceedings
                              of the 2012 American Council on Consumer Interests Conference, Memphis, TN, April
                              2012. - Golias, M., Ivey, S ., Saharidis, G. (2011) "Advances in Truck Scheduling at a Cross-Docking Facility."
                              Submitted to the International Journal of Information Systems and Supply Chain Management,
                              March 2011. - Ivey, S. and Badoe, D. (2011) "A Review of Policies on Access to Transportation Planning Data
                              and Models: Implications for Transportation Planning Agencies." ASCE Journal of Urban
                              Planning and Development, v137 (4), pp. 438-447. - Karafa J., Golias M.M., Ivey S. , Saharidis G.K.D., Leonardos N. (2011) Scheduling at a cross dock facility with stochastic
                              truck arrival times. In: Ed. Khodr H.M, Scheduling Problems and Solutions. Nova Publishing.
                              ISBN 978-1-61470-689-2 - Koban, J., Larsen, D., and Ivey, S. (2011) "Resolving the source and mixing proportions of modern leakage to the Memphis
                              aquifer in a municipal well field using geochemical and 3H/3He data, Memphis, Tennessee
                              USA." Environmental Earth Sciences, DOI 10.1007/s12665-011-1239-x, 18 p. - Mehlhorn, S., Racer, M., Ivey, S. , and Lipinski, M. (2011) "A Single-objective Recovery Phase Model." International
                              Journal of Information Technology Project Management. V2, n3, pp. 53-71. - Russomanno, D., Best, R., Ivey, S. , Haddock, J., and Franceschetti, D. (2010) "MemphiSTEM: A STEM Talent Expansion Program
                              at the University of Memphis." Journal of STEM Education, V11, n1&2, pp.25-37.
                           
                           
                           Opportunities for Prospective Students
                           
                           Dr. Ivey welcomes inquiries from students interested in pursuing graduate study in
                              Civil Engineering at The University of Memphis with a concentration in transportation
                              engineering.
                           
                           
                           If you are interested, please contact Dr. Ivey from the contact information provided
                              above. Please see the Department's website for more information regarding the application
                              and admission process: http://www.memphis.edu/ce
                           
                           Teaching
                           
                           Courses Taught (University of Memphis) • Engineering Analysis • Probabilistic Methods in Engineering • Traffic Engineering • Senior Design • Transportation Systems Engineering • Approximations and Uncertainty in Engineering
                           
                           Honors and Awards
                           
                           2016 Whitehaven Elementary STEM Advocate Award 2015 Peter G. Hoadley Outstanding Engineering Educator, ASCE TN Section 2015 Memphis-Area Joint Engineers Council Award of Excellence 2012 Outstanding Faculty Research Award, Herff College of Engineering 2011 TN Section Institute of Transportation Engineers Outstanding Individual Service Award 2009-15 A2H Junior Faculty Fellowship 2009,11-13 Memphis-Area Joint Engineers Council Featured Engineer 2008, 2015 Outstanding Faculty Teaching Award, Herff College of Engineering. 2007 ASCE Tennessee Section Young Engineer Award 2005-07, 13-14 ASCE Outstanding Faculty Award, U of M ASCE Student Chapter 2008 ASEE Southeast Section, Best Paper 2007 ASEE Zone III, Best Paper 2005 ASEE Midwest Section, Best Paper 2005 ASCE ExCEEd (Excellence in Civil Engineering Education) Fellowship
                           
                           
                            
                           
                           
                        
                        								
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        	
                     
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Civil News and Newsletter
                              Check out the latest news!
                           
                           
                              Give to Civil Engineering
                              Shape the future of Civil Engineering today!
                           
                           
                              Forms
                              All Civil Engineering forms in one place!
                           
                           
                              Visit Civil Engineering!
                              A place where we can help you achieve your dreams!
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/24/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/ce/people/ssalyers.php
