http://www.memphis.edu/ce/people/cimeier.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Civil Engineering
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Future Students
                        Current Students
                        Research
                        People
                        About
                        Accreditation
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Civil Engineering
                              	
                        
                              	People
                              	
                        Dr. Claudio Meier
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        	
                        
                        		  
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                                                  
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Dr. Claudio Meier
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Associate Professor, Civil Engineering
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Phone
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                          (901) 678-3158
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Email
                                       
                                       cimeier@memphis.edu
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Fax
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                          (901) 678-3026
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Office
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                          108C Engineering Science Building
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Office Hours
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                          Open doors, or you can request an appointment by e-mail
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    										
                                    
                                    
                                                                            
                                    
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           			 
                           			  
                           
                           
                           About Dr. Claudio Meier
                           
                           I was appointed Associate Professor of Civil Engineering at the University of Memphis
                              in the Fall of 2015. I previously held the same position at the University of Concepción,
                              in Chile. I am a water resources engineer specializing in ecohydrology and ecohydraulics.
                              I obtained both a B.Sc. and Professional Diploma in Civil Engineering from the University
                              of Concepción, a M.Sc. in Civil Engineering (hydraulic engineering) from Colorado
                              State University, and a Ph.D. in Biology (river ecology) from the University of Montana.
                              My main interests are the science and sustainable management of river systems, and
                              hydrological science and engineering.
                           
                           
                           I have 25 years of experience teaching water engineering and environmental science
                              courses at undergraduate and graduate levels. I am also a professional engineer in
                              Chile, with a broad consulting experience in river engineering, hydrologic/hydraulic
                              design of civil works, and environmental studies for water projects. I am a Board
                              Member of the Ecohydraulics Committee in the International Association for Hydro-Environment
                              Engineering and Research (IAHR), a Voting Board Member of the International Society
                              for River Science (ISRS), a Member of the Steering Committee for the Andong River
                              Experiment Forum (Korea), and an associate member of the American Society of Civil
                              Engineers. I am also in the Editorial Board of the International Journal of River Basin Management , and have reviewed manuscripts for the Journal of Hydrology , Journal of Applied Water Engineering and Research , Freshwater Biology , River Research and Applications , Hydrology and Earth System Sciences , two book chapters, and a book. I am looking for PhD students. If you are interested in interdisciplinary research
                              in rivers or in hydrological engineering and science, please send me your complete
                              CV.
                           
                           
                            
                           
                           Research Interests
                           My research is interdisciplinary, centered on fluvial processes, environmental change
                              in rivers, and rainfall analysis. I try to focus on topics that are both scientifically
                              relevant and applicable, always recognizing the scarcity and uncertainty of the available
                              data. I stress the observation of the natural systems and a sound qualitative understanding
                              of the physical processes, before the application of complicated mathematical methods.
                              Most typically, my work is a combination of theory, field observations and rigorous
                              laboratory/outdoor experiments, which attempts to elucidate the interactions between
                              hydraulics, vegetation, hydrology, sediment transport, hyporheic flows and river landforms,
                              over a range of scales, but focusing at the bar scale.
                           
                           I have generated novel, significant concepts and methodologies in the topics of vegetation
                              establishment in riparian environments, underestimation of extreme rainfall intensities,
                              hyporheic exchange flows, interannual variability of precipitation, environmental
                              impacts of hydropower, and spatial variability in gravel-bed rivers. I have also conducted
                              research on the hydraulics of gutter flows, large outburst floods in Patagonia, temperature
                              regimes in rivers, and urban flooding.
                           
                           
                           My current research interests are in:
                           
                           - Fluvial processes in gravel-bed rivers:
                           
                           
                              
                              i. Early establishment of riparian trees ii. Spatial variability of the surficial and subsurficial texture in bars iii. Dynamics of the water table and piezometric gradients within bars iv. Hyporheic exchange flows under river bars v. Effects of invasive plants in fluvial systems vi. Methods for better describing the spatial variability in gravel-bed rivers
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           - Rainfall analysis:
                           
                           
                              
                              i. Interannual variability of rainfall with derived distributions ii. Negative biases in extreme precipitation events
                              
                              
                           
                           
                            
                           
                           Publications
                           
                           (* denotes undergraduate students; # graduate students)
                           
                           
                           Refereed Journal Papers:
                           
                            
                           
                           Meier, C.I. , J. Moraga # , G. Pranzini*, and P. Molnár. 2016. Effects of record length and resolution on the
                              derived distribution of annual precipitation, accepted for publication in Hydrology and Earth System Sciences [Impact Factor: 3.99; 5-yr IF: 4.54]
                           
                           
                           Nardini, A., C.I. Meier , and M. Gomes Miguez. 2016. The fluvial space: Comparison of the legal-administrative
                              frameworks of Chile, Brazil, Mexico, Spain, and Italy and criteria to define fluvial
                              corridors. Aqua-LAC , 8(1), 68-79 (Journal of the International Hydrological Programme for Latin America
                              and the Caribbean, in Spanish).
                           
                           
                           Meier, C.I ., B.L. Reid, and O. Sandoval*. 2013. "Effects of the invasive plant Lupinus polyphyllus on vertical accretion of fine sediment and nutrient availability in bars of the gravel-bed
                              Paloma river." Limnologica: Ecology and Management of Inland Waters , 43(5): 381-87. [Impact Factor: 1.66; 5-yr IF: 1.95]
                           
                           
                           Link, O., A. Huerta*, A. Stehr, A. Monsalve*, C.I. Meier , and M. Aguayo. 2013. The solar to stream power ratio: A dimensionless number explaining
                              diel fluctuations of temperature in mesoscale rivers. River Research and Applications , 29(6): 792-803. [IF: 1.971; 5-yr IF: 2.310]
                           
                           
                           Andreoli, A., L. Mao, A. Iroumé, J.L. Arumí, A. Nardini, R. Pizarro, D. Caamaño, C. Meier , and O. Link. 2012. The need for a hydromorphological approach to Chilean river management.
                              Revista Chilena de Historia Natural , Vol. 85, 339-343 [Impact Factor: 0.850; 5-yr IF: 1.059]
                           
                           
                           Dussaillant, A., W. Buytaert, C.I. Meier, and F. Espinoza. 2012. "Hydrological Regime of Remote Catchments with Extreme Gradients
                              under Accelerated Change: The Baker Basin in Patagonia". Hydrological Sciences Journal , 57(8): 1530-42 [IF: 1.252; 5-yr IF: 1.934]
                           
                           
                           Kargel, J., P. Alho, W. Buytaert, R. Célleri, J. G. Cogley, A. Dussaillant, Z. Guido,
                              W. Haeberli, S. Harrison, G. Leonard, A. Maxwell, C. Meier , G. Poveda, B. Reid, J. Reynolds, C. Portocarrero-Rodriguez, H. Romero, and J. Schneider.
                              2012 "Glaciers in Patagonia: controversy and prospects". EOS, Transactions of the American Geophysical Union , Vol. 93(22): 212
                           
                           
                           Meier, C.I ., and F.R. Hauer. 2010. Strong effect of coarse surface layer on moisture within
                              gravel bars: Results from an outdoor experiment. Water Resources Research , Vol. 46(5), W05507. [ISI Impact Factor: 3.709; 5-yr Impact Factor: 3.450]
                           
                           
                           Dussaillant, A.R., G. Benito, W. Buytaert, P.Carling, C.I. Meier , and F. Espinoza. 2009. Repeated glacial-lake outburst floods in Patagonia: An increasing
                              hazard? Natural Hazards , 54(2): 469-481. [IF: 1.958; 5-yr IF: 1.710; manuscript cited in 60+ articles]
                           
                           
                           Goodwin, P., K. Jorde, C.I. Meier , and O. Parra. 2006. Minimizing environmental impacts of hydropower development:
                              transferring lessons from past projects to a proposed strategy for Chile. Journal of Hydroinformatics , 8(4): 253-270 [IF: 1.336; 5-yr IF: 1.460; one of the most accessed papers in this
                              journal; cited in 20+ articles] 
                           
                           
                            
                           
                           Articles Submitted and in Preparation:
                           
                            
                           
                           Oñat # , A., B.L. Reid, and C.I. Meier . "Hyporheic exchange fluctuations in gravel bars of braided rivers with multiple
                              diel forcing: relative contribution of cycles in hydraulic gradient, inundation area
                              and conductivity". Submitted to Water Resources Research .
                           
                           
                           Flores # , E., C.I. Meier, G. Montalva, and B.L. Reid. "Effects of oven-drying on the hydraulic conductivity
                              and water holding capacity of volcanic ash and tephra". In preparation for submission
                              to Engineering Geology .
                           
                           
                           Sepúlveda, H.H., C. Parada, O. Artal, G. Olivares, and C.I. Meier . "Evaluation of the mean annual and seasonal dynamics of a high-resolution ocean
                              model off South-Central Chile". In preparation.
                           
                           
                           Meier, C.I. , C. Olivares-Sepúlveda # , and J. Stella. "Rock mulching in gravel bed rivers: Simulating its effects on early
                              establishment of an invasive riparian tree". In preparation for submission to Ecohydrology .
                           
                           
                            
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           Books and Book Chapters:
                           
                            
                           
                           Benito G., V.R. Thorndycraft,M.J. Machado, C. Sancho, A. Dussaillant, and C.I. Meier . 2014. Magnitude and timing of Holocene glacial lake outburst floods in the Baker
                              River, Northern Patagonian Icefield, Chile, in: S. Schnabel and A. Gómez Gutiérrez
                              (Eds). " Avances de la Geomorfología en España 2012-14 ". Sociedad Española de Geomorfología (in Spanish).
                           
                           
                           Meier, C.I. 2009. Hydroecology. Section 4.10 in: " Guide to Hydrological Practices ", 6th Ed., Publication WMO-No. 168, World Meteorological Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.
                           
                           
                           Meier, C.I. 2001 (Ed.). " Proceedings of the XVth Chilean Congress of Hydraulic Engineering ", Concepción, November 2001. Sociedad Chilena de Ingeniería Hidráulica (in Spanish)
                           
                           
                           Meier, C.I. 1998. Discussion to "Advances in sediment transport processes and fluvial morphology",
                              by G. Parker. Chapter 2 in: Klingeman P.C., R.L. Beschta, P.D. Komar, and J.B. Bradley
                              (Eds.). " Gravel-Bed Rivers in the Environment ". Water Resources Publications. Highlands Ranch, CO.
                           
                           
                           Meier, C.I. 1998. Discussion to "Dynamic roughness, sediment transport and flow structures in
                              a mountain stream", by C. de Jong and P. Ergenzinger. Chapter 4 in: Klingeman P.C.,
                              R.L. Beschta, P.D. Komar, and J.B. Bradley (Eds.). " Gravel-Bed Rivers in the Environment ". Water Resources Publications, Highlands Ranch, CO.
                           
                           
                           Meier, C.I. 1993. Probable impacts of Pangue Dam on the natural environment. Pp. 347-83 in: F.Faranda
                              y O.Parra (eds.) " Evaluación Ecológica del Sistema Fluvial del Río Biobío ". Monografía Científica EULA, Vol. 12, Universidad de Concepción, Concepción, Chile
                              (in Spanish).
                           
                           
                            
                           
                           Peer-Reviewed Conference Proceedings:
                           
                            
                           
                           Burboa*, A., and C.I. Meier. 2016. "Pluvioreader: An automatic software for digitizing pluviograms." Accepted
                              for presentation at IAHR 27 th Latin American Hydraulics Congress, Lima, Peru, September 2016. 11 pp.
                           
                           
                           Meier, C.I. , J.S. Moraga*, and P. Molnár. 2015. "Underestimation of DDF values obtained from
                              paper pluviograms". In Molnár, P. & Peleg, N. (Eds.), Rainfall in urban and natural
                              systems. Proceedings of the 10 th International Workshop on Precipitation in Urban Areas (UrbanRain15), Pontresina,
                              1-5 December 2015. ETH-Zürich, Institute of Environmental Engineering,doi:10.3929/ethz-a-010549004
                           
                           
                           Meier, C.I. , J.S. Moraga*, and P. Molnár. 2015. "Large negative biases in design rainfall caused
                              by temporal aggregation of precipitation data and by extracting maxima from a subset
                              of all storms". IAHR 36 th World Congress, the Hague, Netherlands. June 2015. 6 pp.
                           
                           
                           Meier, C.I. , G. Pranzini*, J.S. Moraga # , and P. Molnár. 2015. "Derived distribution of annual precipitation: efects of record
                              length and rainfall data aggregation". IAHR 36 th World Congress, the Hague, Netherlands. June 2015. 5 pp.
                           
                           
                           Meier, C.I. , R. Cisternas*, A. Oñat*, and B. Reid. 2014. "Spatio-temporal behaviour of the phreatic
                              and piezometric levels in a medial, unit, gravel bar, during a flood". 10 th International Symposium on Ecohydraulics, Trondheim, Norway. 4 pp.
                           
                           
                           Link, O., C.I. Meier , and B. Ettmer. 2013. "A physical model for managing sedimentation in the Las Juntas
                              reservoir". XXI st Chilean Congress of Hydraulic Engineering, Concepción, Chile. 10 pp. (in Spanish)
                           
                           
                           Soto*, X., and C.I. Meier . 2013. "Underestimation of IDF values in Concepción: 1. Analysis and comparison".
                              XXI st Chilean Congress of Hydraulic Engineering, Concepción, Chile. 21 pp. (in Spanish)
                           
                           
                           Meier, C.I. , X. Soto*,M. Cid*, C. González*, and A. Burboa*. 2013. "Underestimation of IDF values
                              in Concepción: 2. Explaining the bias". XXI st Chilean Congress of Hydraulic Engineering, Concepción, Chile. 16 pp. (in Spanish)
                           
                           
                           Meier, C.I. , R. Cisternas*, and A. Schwarz. 2012. "Spatial behavior of the water table under
                              medial unit bars in a wandering gravel-bed river". 9 th International Symposium on Ecohydraulics, Vienna, Austria. 4 pp.
                           
                           
                           Meier, C.I. , O. Sandoval*, and B. Reid. 2012. "Effects of the invasive plant Lupinus polyphyllus on vertical accretion and nutrient availability in gravel bars". 9th International
                              Symposium on Ecohydraulics, Vienna, Austria. 7 pp.
                           
                           
                           Proboste*, R., O. Link, and C.I. Meier . 2011. "Error analysis of photo-sieving algorithms". XX th Chilean Congress of Hydraulic Engineering, Santiago, Chile. 13 pp. (in Spanish)
                           
                           
                           Meier, C.I. 2011. A new conceptual model for establishment of riparian trees at the bar scale,
                              in gravel-bed rivers. Geophysical Research Abstracts Vol. 13, EGU2011-9328.
                           
                           
                           Meier, C.I. , and J.P. Riquelme*. 2010. "Spatial variability of factors affecting riparian tree
                              establishment at the bar scale". 8 th International Symposium on Ecohydraulics, Seoul, Korea. 8 pp.
                           
                           
                           Dussaillant, A., G. Benito, W. Buytaert, P. Carling, F. González, O. Link, and C.I. Meier . Repeated Glacial-Lake Outburst Floods in Patagonia: An Increasing Hazard? Geophysical
                              Research Abstracts Vol. 11, EGU2009-1442.
                           
                           
                           García*, A., and C.I. Meier . 2003. "Preliminary Hydraulic Design of an Artificial Channel Optimised for Spawning
                              and Rearing of Rainbow Trout". XVI th Chilean Congress of Hydraulic Engineering, Santiago (in Spanish). 11 pp.
                           
                           
                           Zapata*, R., and C. Meier . 2003. "Variability of Flow Width in Gutters of Roads and Streets". XVI th Chilean Congress of Hydraulic Engineering, Santiago (in Spanish). 14 pp.
                           
                           
                           Parra, O., and C.I. Meier. 2003. "The Biobío and Laja Rivers: Fluvial Systems under Strong Human Pressure".
                              Case-study presented at the Third World Water Forum", Kyoto, by the Italian Centre
                              for Fluvial Restoration. 4 pp.
                           
                           
                           Pranzini*, G., and C.I. Meier . 2001. "Distribution of Annual Precipitation in Concepción as Derived from the Characteristics
                              of the Storm Sequences ". XV th Chilean Congress of Hydraulic Engineering, Concepción. 12 pp.
                           
                           
                           Meier, C.I. 1998a. The ecological basis of river restoration: 1. River ecology for hydraulic
                              engineers. Proceedings of the Conference " Engineering Approaches to Ecosystem Restoration ", Denver, American Society of Civil Engineers. 6 pp.
                           
                           
                           Meier, C.I. 1998b. The ecological basis of river restoration: 2. Defining restoration from an
                              ecological perspective. Proceedings of the Conference " Engineering Approaches to Ecosystem Restoration ", Denver. American Society of Civil Engineers. 6 pp.
                           
                           
                           Meier, C.I. 1995. A critical review of the Pangue Dam project EIA (Biobío River, Chile). Proceedings of the 1 st Annual Conference of the Water Resources Engineering. Division , San Antonio, Texas. American Society of Civil Engineers. 6 pp.
                           
                           
                           Meier, C.I. 1995. Sustainability: A perspective from the South. Proceedings of the 22 nd Annual Conference of the Water Resources Planning and Management Division , Cambridge, Massachussets. American Society of Civil Engineers. 6 pp.
                           
                           
                           Meier, C.I. 1994. Modification of environmental conditions downstream of dams and their impacts
                              on aquatic invertebrates. Proceedings 3 as Jornadas de Hidráulica F.J. Domínguez, Concepción . Sociedad Chilena de Ingeniería Hidráulica (in Spanish). 15 pp.
                           
                           
                            
                           
                           Theses:
                           
                            
                           
                           Ph.D., Organismal Biology and Ecology (Fluvial Ecology), 2008, University of Montana,
                              Missoula. Thesis : "Cottonwood Establishment in a Gravel-Bed River". Major Professor : Prof. F. Richard Hauer
                           
                           
                           M.Sc., Civil Engineering (Hydraulic Engineering), 1995, Colorado State University,
                              Fort Collins. Thesis: "Transport Velocities of Single Bed-Load Grains in Hydraulically Smooth Open-Channel
                              Flow". Major Professor: Prof. Pierre Y. Julien
                           
                           
                           Civil Engineer Diploma (Hydraulic & Environmental Engrg.), 1990, University of Concepción,
                              Concepción, Chile. Thesis: "Domestic Wastewater Discharges in the Biobío River Basin". Major Professor: Eng. Alberto Duyvestein
                           
                           
                            
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           Teaching and Advising
                           
                           (* indicates course first developed and taught by Dr. Meier)
                           
                           At the Dept. of Civil Engineering, U. of Memphis: CIVL 3180 Hydraulics and Hydrology (senior course, 3 h/wk, 42 hours, taught twice) CIVL 4180/6180 Advanced Hydraulics and Hydrology (senior-masters level, 3 h/wk, 42
                              hrs, Fall 2017)
                           
                           
                           Undergraduate courses taught at the Dept. of Civil Engineering, U. de Concepción: 544 555 Introduction to Environmental Science* (2nd to 4th year, 4 h/wk, 68 hours,
                              taught 20+ times) 544 230 Open Channel Flow* (4th year, 5 h/wk, 85 hours, taught three times) 544 557 Environmental Impact of Hydraulic Works* (5th year, 5 h/wk, 68 hours, taught
                              three times) 554 010 Challenges in Civil Engineering (1st year, partly: 4 hours, motivational course
                              in curriculum) 554 033 Hydraulics (4th year, open channel part of the class: 5 h/wk, 45 hours, taught
                              once) 554 046 Hydrology* (4th year, 5 h/wk, 85 hours, taught 20+ times)
                           
                           
                           Undergraduate/graduate courses taught at the Faculty of Environmental Sciences, U.
                                 de Concepción: 999 057 Sustainable Energy Development (5th year, partly: 6 hours) 999 064 Technological & Environmental Issues in the Energy Sector (5th year, partly:
                              10 hours) 4122023 Energy Management and the Environment (for Ph.D. in Environmental Sciences;
                              6 hours)
                           
                           
                           Graduate courses taught at the Dept. of Civil Engineering, U. de Concepción: 4124026 Ecohydraulics and Ecohydrology* (4 h/wk, 68 hours, taught 6 times) 4124029 Fluvial Geomorphology* (4 h/wk, 68 hours, taught three times) 4124015 Advanced Hydrology (partly: 28 hours, 1st to develop/teach that part of course,
                              taught twice) 4124006 Masters Thesis Seminar (partly: 4 hours, teaches oral and written scientific
                              communication)
                           
                           
                           Civil Engineering Honors Thesis Advisor: Between 2001 and 2015, I was Advisor for 41 students, and Committee Member for another
                              68, completing their 9-month Honors Thesis for the professional diploma of Civil Engineer.
                              One student was from U. Austral de Chile, Valdivia, and another from the Technical
                              U. of München, Germany. Graduate Thesis Advisor: (all in Spanish) Flores, Esteban. Soil hydrological properties in a basin with tephra deposition. Current
                              student, M.Sc. Program in Hydraulic Engineering, Civil Engineering Department, U.
                              de Concepción (co-advised with Dr. Brian L. Reid, CIEP, Coyhaique)
                           
                           
                           Burboa, Andrés. Methods for obtaining unbiased DDF values from long records of weekly
                              raincharts, based on a short overlapping period with high-resolution intensity data.
                              Current student, M.Sc. Program in Hydraulic Engineering, Civil Eng. Dept., U. de Concepción
                              (co-advised with Dr. Peter Molnár, Dept. of Civil, Environmental and Geomatic Engineering,
                              ETH, Zürich)
                           
                           
                           Oñat, Álvaro. 2016. Medial bars as filtering units in braided gravel-bed rivers: Estimating
                              the downwelling flow and its diel behaviour. M.Sc. Program in Hydraulic Engineering,
                              Civil Engineering. Dept., U. de Concepción (co-advised with Dr. Brian L. Reid, CIEP,
                              Coyhaique)
                           
                           
                           Moraga, Jorge S. 2015. Influence of seasonality on the estimation of rainfall interannual
                              variability using derived distributions. M.Sc. Program in Hydraulic Engineering, Civil
                              Eng. Dept., U. de Concepción (co-advised with Dr. Peter Molnár, Dept. of Civil, Environmental
                              and Geomatic Engineering, ETH, Zürich)
                           
                           
                           Olivares, Carlos. 2012. Simulating the coarse surface layer on bars of gravel-bed
                              rivers: Effects on soil moisture and early establishment of riparian vegetation. M.Sc.
                              Thesis in Hydraulic Eng, Civil Eng. Dept., U. de Concepción
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           Graduate Thesis Committee Member: Five students in the M.Sc. Program in Hydraulic Engineering, Universidad de Concepcion
                              (2010-2013) Daniel Zamorano M.Sc. Biology, Universidad de Chile, Santiago (2014-2016)
                           
                           
                           Short Courses and Continuing Education: From 2008 to 2013, Dr. Meier was director of the "Continuing Education Diploma in
                              Hydraulic and Environmental Engineering" (DIHA), offered by the CE Dept. at U. de
                              Concepción. Since 2008, he has taught the following short courses (pre- or post-conference
                              and seminars) and continuing education courses, within the DIHA and/or for public
                              agencies and utilities: "Advances in Setting Ecological Flows and their Applicability
                              in Chile" (2 h), "Environmentally Friendly River Engineering" 2013 (3 h), "How to
                              Use HEC-RAS in River Modelling" (20 h, with M. Teal, WEST Consultants), "Sediment
                              Transport Analysis Using HEC-RAS" (25 h, with M. Teal and C. Goodell, WEST Consultants),
                              "Modelling River Morphodynamics" (40 h course; co-taught 6 h; with J. Nelson & R.
                              McDonald, USGS, and Y. Shimizu, U. of Hokkaido), "Hydropower Impacts on the Physical
                              Environment" (organised 40 h course and taught 24 h; instructors included Prof. P.
                              Goodwin, U. of Idaho), "Environmentally Friendly River Engineering" (25 h), "Fluvial
                              Geomorphology and Ecohydraulics" (25 h), "Measurement Techniques in River Hydraulics"
                              (12 h, twice), "Notions of Hydrology and Hydraulics" (25 h), "Flood Hydrology" (20
                              h, thrice), "River Geomorphology" (20 h, twice), "Sport Fisheries Management" (2 h),
                              "Hydrology for Road Design" (20 h), "Ecohydraulics & Ecohydrology" (20 h), "Hydrology
                              & Hydraulics for Powerplant Operators" (20 h), "Theory and Practice of Flow Profiles
                              (20 h, thrice), "Ecohydraulics and Ecohydrology" (25 h), "Impacts of Hydropower Plants
                              on the Aquatic System" (20 h), "Hydrology in Highway Engineering" (20 h), "Design
                              of Small Hydropower Plants" (4 h), "Ecology and Landscape" (6 h).
                           
                           
                           Projects and Contracts
                           
                           Principal Investigator: "Spatial variability in medial, unit bars of sand-bed rivers", Faculty Research Grants,
                              University of Memphis, 2016, $6000. "Analysis of mitigation measures for the effects of diel flow variations due to peaking
                              generation", Chilean Ministry of Energy, 2015, US$50.800. "International sustainability standards for hydropower: Feasibility of implementing
                              them in Chile", Chilean Ministry of Energy, grant 584105-7-LE15, 2015, US$32.500. "Underestimation of extreme rainfall over short durations: Quantifying plausible hypotheses
                              and a preliminary methodological proposal", Idea - FONDEF Applied Science Grant CA13I10190,
                              Conicyt, 2014. US$242,000. "Taking the Pulse of Chilean Rivers: Enhancing Educational and Academic Opportunities
                              in a Time of Rapid Change". PAI Human Capital Conicyt – Fulbright 881300002 grant,
                              in order to bring Prof. Benjamin Crosby, Idaho State U., for a one-year long sabbatical
                              to U. de Concepción. 2013. US$ 31,200. "Hydrological and Sediment Study – Chaica River", for Energías Renovables de Chile,
                              2013. US$28,400. "Hydrological Study, Upper Lontué Basin", for Ingenium Civil SRL, Barcelona, Spain.
                              2012. US$60,400. "Installing a Gauging Station in the Cautín River", for Ingenium Civil SRL, Barcelona,
                              Spain. 2012, US$10,700. "Selection and Installation of Mountain Weather Stations in the Duqueco Basin", for
                              Duke Energy, 2012, US$19,400. "Physical Model for Sediment Management in the Las Juntas Reservoir", for ENERPLUS,
                              2010. US$148,200. "Surface-Hyporheic Water Interactions and Riparian Tree Establishment in the Paloma
                              River Floodplain, Chilean Patagonia", Fondecyt grant 11080163, CONICYT, Chile, January
                              2009. US$175,000. "Analysis of Baseline Studies for the Environmental Assessment of Hydropower Projects
                              in the Aysén Region." Conservation Dept., General Water Directorate, Ministry of Public
                              Works, 2008. US$118,000. "Interhemispheric Comparison of Physical Factors Explaining Early Establishment Success
                              of Riparian Trees on Bars of Wandering Gravel-Bed Rivers", Research Directorate, U.
                              de Concepción, 2006, US$9200. "Modelling rainfall-runoff and erosion processes in an agricultural and forestry catchment
                              in the VIIIth Region of Chile". Research Directorate, U. de Concepción, DIUC 203.91.39-1,
                              2003, US$ 6700. "Enhancing the Sport Fishery in Waters of the Paloma River Basin", Fontec 199-2045,
                              CORFO, 2003, US$ 65,000.
                           
                           
                           Co-Investigator: "EarthShape: Earth Surface Shaping by Biota", DFG-SPP Program 1803, Scientific Partner
                                    (PIs: Prof. Dr. Todd Ehlers, U. Tübingen; Prof. Dr. Friedhelm von Blanckenburg, GFZ
                                    Potsdam) "Biological and fisheries study of the chinook salmon population in the Toltén River
                                    Basin", Fondo de Investigación Pesquera (Fisheries Research Fund) FIP 2014-87, Fishing
                                    Subsecretary, Chile, 2014. US$151,000, Co-Investigator (PI: Dr. Daniel Gómez Uchida,
                                    Zoology Dept., U. of Concepción). "Analysis of Catastrophic Floods integrating Sensor Networks, Remote Sensing and Numerical
                                    Modelling Tools, using Repeated Outburst Floods in Patagonia as a Test Case". U. of
                                    Greenwich RAE fund 2010-3, £ 38,000. Co-Investigator (PI: Dr. Alejandro Dussaillant,
                                    Civil Engineering Dept., U. of Greenwich, UK) "Hydropower Technical & Environmental Sustainability "– international collaboration
                                    on palaeohydrological tools (for extending records and better design), and sediment
                                    budget studies (for extending reservoir life and diminishing environmental impacts
                                    downstream). World Bank & Chilean PBCT-Conicyt AC-70, 2008-9. US$ 44,000. Co-Investigator
                                    (PI: Dr. Alejandro Dussaillant, Civil Engineering Dept., U. of Greenwich, UK)
                           
                           Languages
                           
                           Mother tongues: French and Spanish Fluent: English and Italian Basic level: German
                           
                           
                           Keynote and Invited Conference Presentations
                           
                           "Sustainable Hydropower for Latin America", Keynote presentation, 1st Ecohydrology
                              Conference for Latin America, Santiago, Chile, November 2013. "The Importance of Fluvial Geomorphology for River Engineering". Keynote presentation,
                              with Dr. Benjamin Crosby (Idaho State U.), XXIst Chilean Conference on Hydraulic Engineering,
                              Concepción. October 2013. "Interbasin water-transfer megaprojects: Impacts on the dewatered rivers". Invited
                              presentation, Symposium on Water-Transfer and Energy Megaprojects in Chile. Xth Conference
                              of the Chilean Limnological Society, Concepción. 2013 "How do riparian poplars and willows really establish along gravel-bed rivers?" Keynote
                              presentation at the 9th International Symposium on Ecohydraulics, Vienna, Austria.
                              September 2012. "Sustainable Hydropower for Chile". Keynote presentation, 8th Conference of the Chilean
                              Limnological Society, Valdivia, 2011. "Critical scientific unknowns in Ecohydraulics. Putting the 'eco' back into Ecohydraulics"
                              Invited presentation at the Workshop on "Research Management in the Eco-Environment".
                              8th International Symposium on Ecohydraulics, Seoul, Korea. 2010. "Establishment of Riparian Trees in a Gravel-Bed River". Keynote presentation at the
                              6th Conference of the Chilean Limnological Society, Coyhaique. October 2009. "Hydropower Development and the Future of Patagonia: The Scientific Perspective".
                              Invited plenary presentation, 7th International Symposium on Ecohydraulics, Concepcion,
                              Chile, January 2009. "Proposals for Sport Fishing Regulations in Chile". Keynote presentation at the 12th
                              Workshop of the Chilean Limnological Society, Concepción. 2003.
                           
                           
                           Invitations as an Expert
                           
                           "Sustainable Hydropower Development", International Panel "Exploring the Future of
                              Energy, Climate Change, and Development", Ministry of Energy and MAPS-Chile, Santiago,
                              April 2015 "Green River Project International Seminar", Korea Institute of Civil Engineering
                              and BuildingTechnology, Ilsan, Korea, October 2014 "MAPS Chile Project: Mitigation Options to Confront Climate Change", Invited Expert
                              in the "Electricity Technical Working Group" and in the "Scenario Building Group".
                              Ministry of the Environment, Chile. 2012-2013 (56 hours) "Manual of Hydromorphological Alterations in Rivers and Lakes", Invited Expert, Ministry
                              of the Environment & Universidad de Chile, 2012 (32 hours) "Sustainable Hydropower for Chile", Chilean Government Advisory Commission on Electric
                              Development (CADE), Ministry of Energy, Aug. 2011 "Hydropower Sustainability in Chile: Can We Learn from Past Mistakes?" NSF-PASI (National
                              Science Foundation-Pan American Advanced Science Institute) Workshop "Human, Physical,
                              and Natural Capital Investment in Patagonia: a Predictive Approach Under the Sustainability
                              Criterion", Concepción, 2008. Member of the Expert Group for policy paper "Environmental Aspects of Integrated Flood
                              Management", Associated Programme on Flood Management, World Meteorological Org. and
                              Global Water Partnership, Geneva, Switzerland, 2006. Member of the Panel discussing the Recreational Fishing Law in the Fishing Subsecretary
                              and Congress, Chile, 2002-2003
                           
                           
                           Awards and Honors
                           
                           2012: Keynote speaker at the 9th International Symposium on Ecohydraulics, Vienna,
                              Austria 2009-2010: Teaching Merit Award, Faculty of Engineering, Universidad de Concepción 2006-2007: Teaching Merit Award, Faculty of Engineering, Universidad de Concepción 2007: Montana NSF-EPSCOR PhD Fellowship 1993-1995: Fulbright Scholarship and Encyclopaedia Britannica grant for MSc studies
                              at Colorado State U. 1989-1991: Scholarship from the Italian Government for graduate studies in Environmental
                              Sciences at Universidad de Concepción 1990: "Universidad de Concepción" prize, first in his Civil Engineering class Presidential scholar through the duration of his high-school and undergraduate university
                              studies.
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        								
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        	
                     
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Civil News and Newsletter
                              Check out the latest news!
                           
                           
                              Give to Civil Engineering
                              Shape the future of Civil Engineering today!
                           
                           
                              Forms
                              All Civil Engineering forms in one place!
                           
                           
                              Visit Civil Engineering!
                              A place where we can help you achieve your dreams!
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 8/18/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/ce/people/cimeier.php
