http://www.memphis.edu/ce/people/rwmeier.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Civil Engineering
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Future Students
                        Current Students
                        Research
                        People
                        About
                        Accreditation
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Civil Engineering
                              	
                        
                              	People
                              	
                        Dr. Roger Meier
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        	
                        
                        		  
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                                                  
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Dr. Roger W. Meier
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Associate Professor & Graduate Coordinator, Civil Engineering
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Phone
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                          901-678-3284
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Email
                                       
                                       rwmeier@memphis.edu
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Fax
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                          901-678-3026
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Office
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                          112C Engineering Science Building
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Office Hours
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                          9:00 am – 11:00 am M – F
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    										
                                    
                                    
                                                                            
                                    
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           			 
                           			  
                           
                           
                           About Dr. Meier
                           
                           Dr. Meier holds a Ph.D. from Georgia Institute of Technology (1995), a M.Sc. from
                              University of Colorado at Boulder (1983), and a B.S. from Virginia Tech (1979). He
                              has been on the faculty of the Department of Civil Engineering at The University of
                              Memphis since August 1995. Before that, he worked for 12 years as a Research Civil
                              Engineer at the U.S. Army Engineer Waterways Experiment Station (now the Engineering
                              Research and Development Center) in Vicksburg, MS. While at Waterways Experiment Station,
                              he worked in the Geomechanics, Soil and Rock Mechanics, and Mobility Systems Divisions.
                           
                           
                           Dr. Meier's research interests are primarily in the areas of soil mechanics, pavement
                              mechanics, highway materials, and numerical methods. He teaches graduate and undergraduate
                              courses in soil mechanics, pavement design, highway materials, and engineering economics,
                              among others.
                           
                           
                           Dr. Meier is a member of the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE), American
                              Concrete Institute (ACI), and American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) and
                              serves on several committees within those organizations. He is also a long-serving
                              officer in the local ASCE and ACI organizations, and an associate editor for the Journal of Geotechnical and Geoenviromental Engineering . Dr. Meier has also been the ASCE Student Chapter Faculty Advisor since 1997.
                           
                           
                           Research Interests
                           
                           Collapsible Soils Unsaturated Soil Mechanics Pavement Mechanics Highway Materials Soft Computing Methods
                           
                           
                           Publications
                           
                           Meier, R., Abbo, A., and Wang, L. (Eds.) Soil Behavior and Geomicromechanics , ASCE Geotechnical Special Publication No. 200, 2010.
                           
                           
                           Zou, G., Drumm, E. C., and Meier, R. W. (2007) "Environmental Effects on the Predicted
                              Service Life of Flexible Pavements," Journal of Transportation Engineering , ASCE, Vol. 133, No. 1, January 1, 2007, pp. 47-56.
                           
                           
                           Huang, B., Meier, R., Prozzi, J., and Tutumluer, E. (Eds.) Pavement Mechanics and Performance , ASCE Geotechnical Special Publication No. 154, 2006.
                           
                           
                           Zuo, G., Drumm, E., Meier, R., Rainwater, N., Marshall, C., Wright, W., and Yoder,
                              R. (2004) Observed Long-Term Water Content Changes in Flexible Pavements in a Moderate
                              Climate. Geotechnical Engineering for Transportation Projects: pp. 1066-1075. Drumm, E. C. and Meier, R.W. (2003) "LTPP Data Analysis: Daily and Seasonal Variations
                              in Insitu Material Properties, Project 20-50(7&12)" Final Report to National Cooperative
                              Highway Research Program, web document http://trb.org/publications/nchrp/nchrp_w60.pdf .
                           
                           
                           Zou, G., Meier, R.W. and Drumm, E.C. (2002) "The Effect of Temperature Averaging on
                              Predicted Pavement Life," Transportation Research Record, No. 1809, TRB, Washington
                              D.C., pp. 119-125.
                           
                           
                           Marshall, P. C., Meier, R. W., and Welch, M., "Seasonal Temperature Effects On Flexible
                              Pavements In Tennessee," Transportation Research Record No. 1764, TRB, National Research
                              Council, Washington, D.C., 2001, pp. 89-96.
                           
                           
                           Meier, R. W. and Barkdoll, B. D. "Sampling Design for Network Model Calibration Using
                              Genetic Algorithms," Journal of Water Resources Planning and Management , ASCE, July, 2000. Meier, R. W. and Tutumluer, E. "Uses of Artificial Neural Networks in the Mechanistic
                              Empirical Design of Flexible Pavements," in Artificial Intelligence and Mathematical Methods in Pavement and Geomechanical Systems , A. A. Balkema, Rotterdam, 1998. Meier, R. W. and Rix, G. J. "Backcalculation of Flexible Pavement Moduli from Falling
                              Weight Deflectometer Data using Artificial Neural Networks," in Artificial Neural Networks for Civil Engineers: Advanced Features and Applications , ASCE, 1998. Meier, R. W., Alexander, D. R. and Freeman, R. "Using Artificial Neural Networks as
                              a Forward Approach to Backcalculation," Transportation Research Record No. 1570 , TRB, National Research Council, Washington, D. C., 1997, pp. 126-133. Tutumluer, E. and Meier, R. W., "An Attempt at Resilient Modulus Modeling Using Artificial
                              Neural Networks," Transportation Research Record No. 1540 , TRB, National Research Council, Washington, D. C., 1996, pp. 1-6. Meier, R. W. and Rix, G. J., "Backcalculation of Flexible Pavement Moduli from Dynamic
                              Deflection Basins Using Artificial Neural Networks," Transportation Research Record 1473 , TRB, National Research Council, Washington, D. C., 1995.
                           
                           
                           Meier, R. W. and Rix, G. J., "Backcalculation of Flexible Pavement Moduli from Dynamic
                              Deflection Basins Using Artificial Neural Networks," Transportation Research Record 1473 , TRB, National Research Council, Washington, D. C., 1995.
                           
                           
                           Meier, R. W. and Rix, G. J., "Backcalculation of Flexible Pavement Moduli Using Artificial
                              Neural Networks," Transportation Research Record 1448 , TRB, National Research Council, Washington, D. C., 1994. Baylot, E. A., Meier, R. W. and Hadala, P. F., "Engineer Model Improvement Program
                              - Report 11: Parametric Studies of Alternative Methods of Simulating Combat Engineer
                              Activity and of Engineer Battlefield Preparation Using the Engineer Functional Area
                              Model," Technical Report GL-90-8, U.S. Army Engineer Waterways Experiment Station,
                              Vicksburg, MS, September 1994. Meier, R. W. and Horner, D. A. (Eds.), "Proceedings, First North American Workshop
                              on Modeling the Mechanics of Off-Road Mobility," Miscellaneous Paper GL-94-30, U.S.
                              Army Engineer Waterways Experiment Station, Vicksburg, MS, August 1994. Rix, G. J. and Meier, R. W., "Use of Artificial Neural Networks for Automated Nondestructive
                              Test Interpretation," Proceedings , Conference on the Repair and Rehabilitation of the Infrastructure in the Americas,
                              Mayaguez, Puerto Rico, May 1994. Meier, R. W. and Rix, G. J., "An Initial Study of Surface Wave Inversion Using Artificial
                              Neural Networks," Geotechnical Testing Journal , Vol. 16, No. 4, December 1993.  
                           
                           
                           Teaching
                           
                           Advanced Soil Mechanics (G) Applied Soil Mechanics (U) Approximation and Uncertainty (U) Civil Engineering Materials (U) Computer Methods in Civil Engineering (U) Critical State Soil Mechanics (G) Design of Highway and Airfield Pavements (G) Engineering Economics (U) Mechanics of Materials (U) Pavement Design and Evaluation (U/G) Senior Design (U) Senior Seminar (U) Soil and Site Improvement (G) Soil Mechanics (U) Unsaturated Soil Mechanics (G)
                           
                           
                           Honors and Awards
                           
                           Herff College of Engineering Outstanding Faculty Teaching Award (2013) Memphis-Area Joint Engineers Council Award of Excellence (2013) ASCE Student Chapter Faculty of the Year Award (2012) ASCE Tennessee Section Daniel S. Barge Distinguished Service Award (2010) ASCE Student Chapter Faculty of the Year Award (2009) J. Geotech. & Geoenv. Engg. Outstanding Editorial Board Member (2009) Herff College of Engineering Outstanding Faculty Teaching Award (2007) ASCE Tennessee Section Peter G. Hoadley Engineering Educator of the Year (2006) ASCE Student Chapter Faculty of the Year Award (2005) Herff College of Engineering Outstanding Faculty Research Award (2004) ASCE Student Chapter Faculty of the Year Award (2003) Department of the Army Certificate of Commendation (1993) ASCE Mississippi Section Young Civil Engineer of the Year (1990) Department of the Army Certificate of Commendation (1990) Department of the Army Special Act or Service Award (1989) Department of the Army Certificate of Commendation (1984)
                           
                           
                           Offices and Committee Memberships
                           
                           ASCE Student Chapter Faculty Advisor (1997-present) ASCE J. Geotech. & Geoenv. Engg. Editorial Board (1997-present) ASCE West Tennessee Branch Treasurer (2004-present) ASCE West Tennessee Branch Board of Directors (1999-2004) ASCE West Tennessee Branch President (1998-1999) ASTM Committee D04 on Road and Paving Materials (2000-present) ASCE GI Pavements Committee Steering Committee (2003-present) ASCE T&DI Highway Pavements Committee (2005-present) ACI Mid-America Chapter Secretary (2000-present) TRB Committee AFD80 on Strength and Deformation of Pavements (1997-2006)
                           
                           
                            
                           
                            
                           
                           
                        
                        								
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        	
                     
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Civil News and Newsletter
                              Check out the latest news!
                           
                           
                              Give to Civil Engineering
                              Shape the future of Civil Engineering today!
                           
                           
                              Forms
                              All Civil Engineering forms in one place!
                           
                           
                              Visit Civil Engineering!
                              A place where we can help you achieve your dreams!
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 8/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/ce/people/rwmeier.php
