http://www.memphis.edu/ce/people/lwmoore.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Department of Civil Engineering
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Future Students
                        Current Students
                        Research
                        People
                        About
                        Accreditation
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Civil Engineering
                              	
                        
                              	People
                              	
                        Dr. Larry Moore
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        	
                        
                        		  
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                                                  
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Dr. Larry Moore
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    Professor, Civil Engineering
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Phone
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                          (901) 678-3278
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Email
                                       
                                       lwmoore@memphis.edu
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Fax
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                          (901) 678-3026
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Office
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                          Engineering Science Building Room 112B
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       Office Hours
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    										
                                    
                                    
                                    Website
                                                                            
                                    
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           			 
                           			  
                           
                           
                           About Dr. Larry W. Moore
                           
                           Dr. Moore received his B.S. in Civil Engineering from the University of South Alabama
                              in 1973 and his M.S. and Ph.D. in Environmental Engineering from Mississippi State
                              University in 1974 and 1983, respectively. He worked with the Mississippi Bureau of
                              Pollution Control from 1974 to 1978, writing NPDES permits for industries. During
                              the last 33 years, Dr. Moore has taught undergraduate and graduate environmental engineering
                              courses at the University of Memphis. Dr. Moore has a passion for municipal and industrial
                              wastewater treatment. He has helped (through the UT Center for Industrial Services)
                              to solve industrial wastewater problems at about 200 Tennessee industries in the last
                              33 years.
                           
                           
                           Dr. Moore is a life member of the Water Environment Federation and the Kentucky-Tennessee
                              Water Environment Association (KTWEA). Dr. Moore served on the Technical Program Committee
                              for the KTWEA for many years and has been a very active member of the Pretreatment
                              Certification Committee since 2000. Dr. Moore was President of the KTWEA in 2002 and
                              received the Leary Jones Award in 2009. This award is the highest recognition given
                              by the KTWEA and was given to Dr. Moore for his many years of service to the KTWEA
                              and to the wastewater profession. As a Leary Jones Award recipient, Dr. Moore is now
                              a member of the Kentucky-Tennessee Wastewater Hall of Fame. Dr. Moore has also served
                              on the Tennessee Water and Wastewater Operator Certification Board since 2007.
                           
                           
                           Research Interests
                           
                           Water Quality Modeling of Streams
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 In 2004, he conducted an evaluation of water quality in the Loosahatchie River via
                                    an extensive field data collection effort.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Dr. Moore used the field data to perform water quality modeling of the river to determine
                                    discharge standards for eight rapidly growing municipalities northeast of Memphis.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           Optimization of Municipal & Industrial Wastewater Treatment Plants (WWTPs)
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 He has conducted biological wastewater treatability studies for industries and cities.
                                    The primary purpose of the research was to enhance BOD, TSS, and nitrogen removal
                                    in the full-scale treatment process or to reduce the impact of industrial pollutants
                                    on the municipal wastewater treatment facility.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 He has conducted engineering research investigations to evaluate operating problems
                                    at a 140 million gallon per day (mgd) WWTP (pure oxygen activated sludge process)
                                    and made changes to the plant's operating protocol to solve those operating problems.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Dr. Moore recently had an applied research contract (through the University of Memphis)
                                    to provide operational guidance for the 90 mgd Maxson WWTP in Memphis, Tennessee.
                                    Dr. Moore created a new plant operations spreadsheet that is used daily at the Maxson
                                    WWTP to provide important operating and performance data. Dr. Moore reviewed this
                                    information daily and made recommendations for adjusting WWTP operating parameters
                                    to improve plant performance and effluent quality. As part of the contract with the
                                    City of Memphis, Dr. Moore also provided operator training for the city's wastewater
                                    operators.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           Energy Conservation at Municipal WWTPs
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 From 2010 through 2015, Dr. Moore conducted several energy conservation projects for
                                    municipal water and wastewater treatment plants in Tennessee, Alabama, and Mississippi.
                                    Because several of these treatment plants were able to achieve significant energy
                                    savings, he is now doing energy studies at twenty-four other water and wastewater
                                    treatment plants in Alabama and Tennessee. This work is being funded by the Tennessee
                                    Department of Environment and Conservation and the United States Department of Energy
                                    (USDOE). The USEPA and the Alabama Department of Environmental Management are assisting
                                    Dr. Moore in this effort.
                                 
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           Publications/Presentations
                           
                           Moore, L.W., "Pretreatment Case Study," Thirteenth Water Professionals Conference,
                              Kentucky-Tennessee Water Environment Association, Knoxville, Tennessee, July 17-20,
                              2016. Moore, L.W., "Pollution Prevention in the Metal Finishing Industry," Thirteenth Water
                              Professionals Conference, Kentucky-Tennessee Water Environment Association, Knoxville,
                              Tennessee, July 17-20, 2016.
                           
                           
                           Moore, L.W., "Pharmaceutical Industry Wastewater Management," China-US Joint Workshop
                              – Environmental Remediation and Watershed Restoration, Northeast Normal University,
                              Changchun, China, March 18-20, 2016. Moore, L.W., "Theory and Design of Aeration Systems," China-US Joint Workshop – Environmental
                              Remediation and Watershed Restoration, Northeast Normal University, Changchun, China,
                              March 18-20, 2016. Moore, L.W., "Pollution Prevention in the Food Processing Industry," Twelfth Water
                              Professionals Conference, Kentucky-Tennessee Water Environment Association, Covington,
                              Kentucky, July 26-29, 2015. Moore, L.W., "Heavy Metals Removal," Twelfth Water Professionals Conference, Kentucky-Tennessee
                              Water Environment Association, Covington, Kentucky, July 26-29, 2015. Moore, L.W., "Activated Sludge: Understanding the Process and Satisfying Oxygen Needs,"
                              2015 Tribal Utility Summit, Rock Hill, North Carolina, April 8, 2015. P. Shack and L.W. Moore, "Pretreatment Dynamics: Aligning the Control Authority's
                              Perspective with the Industry's Perspective," 87th Annual Water Environment Federation
                              Technical Exhibition and Conference, New Orleans, September, 2014. Moore, L.W., "Pretreatment Case Study," North Carolina Pretreatment Consortium, Wilmington,
                              North Carolina, September, 2014. P. Shack and L.W. Moore, "Industrial Pretreatment Perspectives," Eleventh Water Professionals
                              Conference, Kentucky-Tennessee Water Environment Association, Louisville, Chattanooga,
                              TN, July 20-23, 2014. Moore, L.W., Keynote Speaker: "Impacts of Industrial Wastewater on POTWs," North Carolina
                              Pretreatment Consortium, Ashville, North Carolina, September 23, 2013. Moore, L.W., "Impacts of Industrial Wastewater on POTWs," Tenth Water Professionals
                              Conference, Kentucky-Tennessee Water Environment Association, Louisville, Kentucky,
                              July 14-17, 2013. Moore, L.W., "Understanding Your POTW More Fully," Tenth Water Professionals Conference,
                              Kentucky-Tennessee Water Environment Association, Louisville, Kentucky, July 14-17,
                              2013. Moore, L.W., "Activated Sludge Fundamentals and Process Control," 56th Mississippi
                              Water Environment Association Annual Meeting and Technical Conference, Olive Branch,
                              Mississippi, July 11-14, 2012. Moore, L.W. and A. Cannella, "Effluent Disinfection Challenges at the Moccasin Bend
                              WWTP, Chattanooga," Ninth Water Professionals Conference, Kentucky-Tennessee Water
                              Environment Association, Memphis, Tennessee, July, 2012.
                           
                           
                           Current and Previous Students
                           
                           Fereshteh Nourizonouz (M.S. – 2016) Research topic: Use of Chemical Coagulation to Enhance Primary Clarifier Performance
                              at the Maxson Wastewater Treatment Plant
                           
                           
                           David Hilgeman (M.S. – 2013) Research topic: Chemical Treatment of Sludge Return Streams at the Maxson WWTP
                           
                           
                           Bjorn Carlsson (M.S. – 2013) Research topic: A Statistical Analysis of the Beneficial Effects of Ferrous Chloride
                              at the T.E. Maxson Treatment Plant
                           
                           
                           Parsa Pezeshk (M.S. – 2011) Research topic: Pulp and Paper Wastewater Color Removal
                           
                           
                           Cheol Park (Ph.D. – 2007) Research Topic: Upgrading Lagoons Using a Floating Rotating Biological Contactor
                           
                           
                           Opportunities for Prospective Students
                           
                           Teaching and research assistant positions may be available. Dr. Moore welcomes inquiries
                              from students interested in pursuing graduate study in Environmental Engineering at
                              The University of Memphis.
                           
                           
                           Teaching
                           
                           Courses Taught at the University of Memphis
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Environmental Systems Engineering (undergraduate)
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Physical-Chemical Treatment (undergraduate/graduate)
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Biological Wastewater Treatment (undergraduate/graduate)
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Water Treatment Plant Design (graduate)
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Wastewater Treatment Plant Design (graduate)
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Advanced Physical-Chemical Treatment (graduate)
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Advanced Biological Wastewater Treatment (graduate)
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Industrial Wastewater Treatment (graduate)
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Water Quality Modeling of Streams (graduate)
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Solid Waste Management (graduate)
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Civil Engineering Design (undergraduate)
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Engineering Economy (undergraduate)
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Environmental Engineering Design (undergraduate/graduate)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                           Honors and Awards
                           
                           
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Superior Performance in University Research (1985)
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Superior Performance in University Research (1986)
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Superior Performance in University Research (1987)
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Superior Performance in University Research (1989)
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Civil Engineering Outstanding Research (1990)
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Kentucky-Tennessee Wastewater Hall of Fame (2009)
                                 
                              
                              
                              
                                 
                                 Life Member of the Water Environment Federation (2016)
                                 
                              
                              
                           
                           
                            
                           
                           
                        
                        								
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        	
                     
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Civil News and Newsletter
                              Check out the latest news!
                           
                           
                              Give to Civil Engineering
                              Shape the future of Civil Engineering today!
                           
                           
                              Forms
                              All Civil Engineering forms in one place!
                           
                           
                              Visit Civil Engineering!
                              A place where we can help you achieve your dreams!
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 8/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/ce/people/lwmoore.php
