http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/students/records/transcript-faq.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Registrar
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Register
                        Students
                        Veterans
                        Faculty & Staff
                        Forms
                     
                     
                        
                           Students
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Students
                                 Enrollment Verification
                                 Grades
                                       
                                       Overview
                                       
                                       GPA and Grading Scale
                                       
                                       Grade Change
                                       
                                       FAQ
                                    
                                 
                                 Transcripts
                                       
                                       Overview
                                       
                                       Official
                                       
                                       Unofficial
                                       
                                       Lambuth University
                                       
                                       FAQ
                                    
                                 
                                 FERPA and Student Educational Records
                                       Annual FERPA Notification
                                       Release of Student Education Record
                                    
                                 
                                 Changing Personal Data
                                 Withdrawing from UofM
                                 Self Service Guides
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Registrar
                              	
                        
                              	Students
                              	
                        FAQ: Transcripts and Grades 
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     FAQ: Transcripts and Grades
                     
                     Transcripts - General Q&A's
                     
                     How do I request an official transcript and how much does it cost?
                     
                     You may request up to 20 copies of your official transcript at no charge if you make
                        your request in the Registrar's Office (003 Wilder Tower), or if you mail an Off-Campus Transcript Request form to the Registrar. In both instances, you will be charged for any copies in excess
                        of 20.
                     
                     
                     If you submit your request online via Transcripts on Demand, you will be charged a
                        small processing fee by Scrip-Safe, the Transcripts on Demand vendor. The charge is
                        payable by major credit card.
                     
                     
                     For detailed information on requesting an official transcript, including request methods,
                        please visit the our Official Transcript page .
                     
                     
                     How do I view my unofficial academic transcript and GPA in Student Self Service?
                     
                     Provided you are a current student and have no transcript holds on your account, you can view your unofficial transcript
                        and GPA statistics by going to your Academic Transcript screen. For instructions,
                        see Academic Transcript .
                     
                     
                     The GPA you see will not include grades for the most recently completed term unless
                        those grades have been declared official. Grades are not usually declared official
                        until the Thursday of the week following exam week. Also, once grades are declared final, you can view your GPA statistics by clicking
                         the "Final" link in the Student Grades channel (also on your Student tab).
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     For more information, go to the  Unofficial Transcript page.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     I am not seeing all of my UofM courses on my unofficial transcript. Why are these
                        courses not showing?
                     
                     
                     The unofficial transcript displays only those courses taken in Fall 1988 or later.
                        Courses taken prior to Fall 1988 are recorded on microfilm and are not available for
                        web display. To review this earlier course work, you will have to request an official
                        transcript.
                     
                     
                     I recently transferred to UofM, but I don't see my transfer courses on my UofM unofficial
                        transcript. Where are they?
                     
                     
                     Contact Admissions ; that office receives and evaluates incoming transcripts. Either your transcript
                        has not been received, or the evaluation has not been completed.
                     
                     
                     Why do some of my transfer courses have "LD" or "UD" course numbers?
                     
                     LD = lower division course (freshman/sophomore); UD = upper division course (junior/senior)
                     
                     Incoming transcripts are evaluated by Admissions. When a course is determined to be
                        the equivalent of a UofM course, you are given credit for the UofM equivalent (ex.,
                        English 101 from XYZ College = ENGL 1010 at UofM).
                     
                     
                     However, when an incoming course is not deemed the equivalent of any UofM course,
                        it is listed on your transcript with a subject area and then a course number of "LD##"
                        or UD##", depending on whether it is considered lower division or upper. You receive
                        general credit for this and other such courses, but they generally will not satisfy
                        specific major requirements. For example, if you made a "B" in English 304 - Novels
                        of Thomas Wolfe at your previous university, this course would likely be listed as
                        ENGL LD01 on your UofM transcript because we do not offer that exact course here.
                     
                     
                     I took an advanced placement test in high school and scored high enough to test out
                        of a UofM course, but I don't see the course credit on my transcript. Can you help?
                     
                     
                     Contact  Admissions about this matter. Most likely that office has not yet received notice of the test
                        score. When it receives the score, it will see that the course credit is added to
                        your transcript.
                     
                     
                     I think that a course I took at my previous university should count as the equivalent
                        of one of UofM's courses. How can I get this credit?
                     
                     
                     Visit Admissions Transfers suite of web pages for equivalency information.
                     
                     
                     I graduated this past term, so why isn't my degree showing as "awarded" on my unofficial
                        transcript?
                     
                     
                     Following the semester's Commencement ceremony, each college certifies the degrees
                        it awarded. This is a last check to ensure that its graduates met their degree requirements.
                        When the  Graduation Analyst completes the review, he or she certifies the degrees for the college in the student
                        information system. Once this is done, your degree will appear as "awarded" rather
                        than "pending" on both your unofficial and official transcripts.
                     
                     
                     The review/certification process can take 3-5 weeks to complete. However, if you need
                        an official transcript, you can submit your request before the process is complete.
                        Simply indicate that you want the transcript held until the degree is awarded; this
                        way your request will be in the queue. See  Official Transcript .
                     
                     
                     Why do I see two sets of undergraduate GPA statistics when I check my grades or look
                        at my transcript? What's the difference between "Institution" and "Institution Combined?"
                     
                     
                     You will see two sets of GPA statistics when you view your official grades or your
                        transcript information:
                     
                     
                     Institution Statistics (First Set)
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Institution - Statistics pertaining to couses taken at UofM, excluding remedial and
                           developmental courses.
                        
                        
                        Transfer - Statistics pertaining to courses taken at other colleges and universities,
                           excluding remedial and developmental courses.
                        
                        
                        Overall - Statistics pertaining to courses taken at UofM and all other colleges and
                           universities you have attended, excluding remedial and developmental courses.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     This first set of statistics is used to determine: the Dean's List (whether you make
                        it or not), your student classification (Senior, Junior, etc.),  your graduation GPA,
                        your degree requirement hours, graduation distinction/honors (Cum Laude, Magna Cum
                        Laude, Summa Cum Laude), eligibility for honors organizations, and other distinctions.
                     
                     
                     Combined Statistics (Second Set)
                     
                     
                     The "Combined" statistics include remedial and developmental courses:
                     
                     
                        
                        Institution Combined - Statistics pertaining to courses taken at UofM, including remedial
                           and developmental courses.
                        
                        
                        Transfer Combined - Statistics pertaining to courses taken at other colleges and universities,
                           including remedial and developmental courses.
                        
                        
                        Overall Combined - Statistics pertaining to courses taken at UofM and all other colleges
                           and universities you have attended, including remedial and developmental courses.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Combined statistics are used to determine: Academic Status (Good Standing, Academic
                        Warning, Academic Probation, Academic Suspension), financial aid eligibility, fraternity/sorority
                        membership status, and athletic eligibility, among other things.
                     
                     
                     If you have never taken any remedial and developmental courses, your two sets of statistics
                        should be the same.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        NOTE : Remedial courses DO appear on your transcript.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     What do the A, E, and I codes on my transcript mean?
                     
                     The three codes mean the following:
                     
                     
                        
                        E = The course attempt is excluded from GPA (grade point average) calculation.
                        
                        A = The course attempt is included in GPA calculation.
                        
                        I = The course attempt is included in GPA and earned hours calculation.
                        
                     
                     
                     To understand these codes and the scenario below, you must remember these basic rules
                        about repeats:
                     
                     
                     When you repeat a course, the second attempt AND ALL SUBSEQUENT ATTEMPTS are used
                        in calculating your GPA. The first attempt remains on your transcript, but it is no
                        longer used in calculating your GPA.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Important Change: Beginning with the Summer 2015 semester, the University's repeat policy will change
                           with regard to courses that are transferred to UofM: such courses will not be used
                           in calculating GPA. You can earn credit for a passing grade, but you cannot affect
                           your GPA. Read more under Computing GPA.This change will not affect repeat courses
                           taken at UofM. If you fail a UofM course and repeat it at the UofM, the repeat grade
                           will replace the first grade in GPA calculation.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     The last grade earned for a course "stands": it is always used in calculating your
                        GPA, even if the grade is lower than a previous attempt's.As a rule, you can receive
                        credit hours for a course only one time. (Some courses are exceptions to this rule,
                        but these are noted in the course description sections of the catalogs.) For example,
                        if you take a 3-hour course 3 times and pass it twice, you will receive only 3 hours
                        credit, not 6.
                     
                     
                     Let's look at this scenario involving MATH 1710, a course worth 3 credit hours:
                     
                     In Fall you take MATH 1710 and earn an F. The F is used in calculating your GPA, and
                        since you made an F, you earned no credit hours for the class.In Spring, you retake
                        MATH 1710 and earn a D. Your first attempt (F in Fall), will now have an E by it.
                        Your second attempt (D in Spring) will now have an I by it. The first attempt is excluded
                        (E) from GPA calculation; the second attempt is included in GPA calculation and results
                        in 3 hours earned credit (I).Wanting a better grade, you decide to take MATH 1710
                        a third time in Summer. This time you earn a C. You now have three attempts of the
                        same course on your transcript. The first attempt (F in Fall) will have an E by it,
                        indicating it is excluded from GPA calculation. The second attempt (D in Spring) now
                        has an A by it, indicating that it is included in GPA calculation but that you are
                        no longer earning credit hours for the attempt. The third attempt now has the I by
                        it, indicating that it is the only attempt that is used in GPA calculation AND results
                        in 3 hours earned credit.
                     
                     
                     For more information on repeats, see Repeated Course/GPA Scenarios .
                     
                     
                     Can I remove a "W" grade from my transcript?
                     
                     Refer to the term's  Dates and Deadlines calenda r for this deadline - Courses Dropped on or After this Date Receive 'W' Grades.
                     
                     
                     Any course you drop on of after this deadline receives a W grade. A W grade cannot
                        be removed: all graded attempts at a course are part of your academic record and appear
                        on your transcript.
                     
                     
                     If you believe that the University made a mistake and that it should remove the W
                        from your record, you may appeal in writing to the Registrar, Office of the Registrar,
                        003 Wilder Tower. Be sure to include the reason for the request and any supporting
                        documentation.
                     
                     
                     I took courses at Lambuth but never at UofM; can I request my Lambuth transcript through
                        UofM?
                     
                     
                     You can find forms for requesting either your Lambuth transcript or the release of
                        your Lambuth medical records on the UofM website; however, you will still need to
                        send the completed and signed forms to the Lambuth Campus. For more information, visit
                        Former Lambuth University Students .
                     
                     
                     Transcripts on Demand (TOD)
                     
                     In partnership with SCRIP-SAFE, the UofM provides a means of requesting official transcripts
                        online and even having these delivered electronically if you so desire. Refer to our
                        TOD FAQ page for Q&As that specifically address this service.
                     
                     
                     GPA/Grades
                     
                     What is my GPA and how is it calculated?
                     
                     For information on how to calculate your GPA, visit Grading Scale and GPA .
                     
                     
                     Check your grades and GPA by viewing the Final Grades page in Student Self Service.
                        Please note that your cumulative GPA is always your CURRENT cumulative GPA regardless
                        of the specific term information you may be accessing. Even when you check an earlier
                        term's grades, the cumulative statistics will be current through the last term you
                        completed. For example, if you view Fall 20XX's grades after the following Spring
                        semester (or later), you will see the Fall 20XX term GPA under the Fall 20XX heading,
                        but the cumulative GPA you see will include any additional credits and grades earned
                        during later semesters.
                     
                     
                     If an A is worth 4.0 Quality Points, shouldn't an A+ be worth more?
                     
                     Although the "+" earns you more Quality Points when it is attached to a B, C, or D,
                        the same is not true when it is given with an A.
                     
                     
                     When the +/- grading system was adopted at UofM, the administration decided that it
                        was not appropriate to award Quality Points in excess of 4.0. The A+ is an honor given
                        for exemplary performance; however, it is not worth more than an A.
                     
                     
                     How will a repeated course look on my transcript? How does a repeat affect my GPA?
                     
                     Through Spring 2015, all graded attempts of a course are recorded on your transcript.
                        The first attempt is excluded from your GPA calculation after you repeat the course;
                        the first attempt is then marked with an "E" (exclude) repeat code. The second and
                        all subsequent attempts will be used in calculating your GPA. But all attempts are
                        recorded on your transcript.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Important Change: Beginning with the Summer 2015 semester, the University's repeat policy will change
                           with regard to courses that are transferred to UM: such courses will not be used in
                           calculating GPA. You can earn credit for a passing grade, but you cannot affect your
                           GPA. Read more under Computing GPA.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     How does a W grade affect my GPA? Is it a bad thing?
                     
                     When you drop a class and receive a "W," the "W" DOES show up on your transcript.
                        It becomes a part of your official record of coursework at the University.
                     
                     
                     As far as your GPA is concerned, a "W" at the University of Memphis is not punitive:
                        it has no point value and is not used in calculating your GPA. The "W" simply indicates
                        that you dropped the course. For example, if you made 2 "A"s, 2 "B"s, and a "W" for
                        the semester, only the "A"s and "B"s would be used in calculating your GPA.
                     
                     
                     Although "W"s do not hurt your GPA, you should avoid accumulating too many of them
                        if you plan to go on to graduate school or to some professional school (law, medical,
                        etc.). Schools for advanced study often do not like to see too many "W"s on an applicant's
                        record. Also, be aware that in certain instances, "W"s can also affect your financial
                        aid, particularly your continued eligibility for Lottery Scholarships. "W" hours do
                        count toward the number of hours covered by Lottery Scholarships.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Students
                        
                           
                              
                              Students
                              Enrollment Verification
                              Grades
                                    
                                    Overview
                                    
                                    GPA and Grading Scale
                                    
                                    Grade Change
                                    
                                    FAQ
                                 
                              
                              Transcripts
                                    
                                    Overview
                                    
                                    Official
                                    
                                    Unofficial
                                    
                                    Lambuth University
                                    
                                    FAQ
                                 
                              
                              FERPA and Student Educational Records
                                    Annual FERPA Notification
                                    Release of Student Education Record
                                 
                              
                              Changing Personal Data
                              Withdrawing from UofM
                              Self Service Guides
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Calendars
                              Academic calendars, dates/deadlines, exams.
                           
                           
                              Notice!
                              Check for alerts and reminders.
                           
                           
                              Contact Us 
                               Have questions? Need assistance or information?
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/29/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/students/records/transcript-faq.php
