http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/students/records/todfaq.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   		
   	
   		
   
   
   		
   		
   
   
   	
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Registrar
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Register
                        Students
                        Veterans
                        Faculty & Staff
                        Forms
                     
                     
                        
                           Students
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Students
                                 Enrollment Verification
                                 Grades
                                       Overview
                                       GPA and Grading Scale
                                       Grade Change
                                       FAQ
                                    
                                 
                                 Transcripts
                                       Overview
                                       Official
                                       Unofficial
                                       Lambuth University
                                       FAQ
                                    
                                 
                                 FERPA and Student Educational Records
                                       Annual FERPA Notification
                                       Release of Student Education Record
                                    
                                 
                                 Changing Personal Data
                                 Withdrawing from UofM
                                 Self Service Guides
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Registrar
                              	
                        
                              	Students
                              	
                        FAQ: Transcripts on Demand (TOD) 
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     FAQ: Transcripts on Demand (TOD)
                     
                     The following FAQ pertain only to Transcripts on Demand (TOD), the online service
                        that allows you to request, and in some instances send, official University of Memphis
                        (UofM) transcripts online. For a general list of transcript FAQ not specific to TOD,
                        refer to Transcripts/Grades FAQ .
                     
                     
                     General Information/Features
                     
                     What is Transcripts on Demand?
                     
                     Transcripts on Demand is a system used for processing and delivering online requests
                        and transcripts. UofM has partnered with Scrip-Safe International to provide this
                        safe, secure, and efficient manner of ordering transcripts and delivering electronic
                        transcripts.
                     
                     
                     Who can order a transcript using Transcripts on Demand?
                     
                     Any current or former student can request their UofM transcript online. But students
                        who attended UofM prior to Fall 1988 are unable to have electronic transcripts delivered
                        since those student records are not in an electronic format. Transcripts for these
                        students must be mailed or picked up in person.
                     
                     
                     Can request that my transcript to be sent electronically?
                     
                     
                     Yes, unless any of your courses pre-date 1988. (See previous question.) A certified
                        .pdf transcript may be sent to any recipient you choose. However, you must confirm
                        that the recipient has an email address and will consider an electronic transcript
                        to be official.
                     
                     
                     Is the electronic delivery option secure?
                     
                     Your electronic transcript is delivered in an encrypted .pdf format to a secure website
                        for the recipient to access. The transcript ordering process requires that you provide
                        an email address for the intended recipient who will receive an email notification
                        that your transcript is ready for pick up at the specific URL named in the email notification.
                     
                     
                     Why is electronic transcript delivery the preferred method of transcript delivery?
                     
                     Delivery of an electronic transcript is faster and safer than using mail. A mailed
                        transcript can take two or more days to arrive at its intended destination once your
                        request is processed by the Registrar’s Office. An electronic transcript can arrive
                        at its intended destination on the same day that it is processed. The processing and
                        delivery of the transcript is tracked through the system and can tell when the transcript
                        was received and by whom. You can receive email notifications during that process
                        as well.
                     
                     
                     Do I have to use a particular browser in order to use TOD?
                     
                     TOD has been specifically designed to work with Internet Explorer, Firefox, and Safari.
                        It is recommended that you use the current release of one of these 3 browsers.
                     
                     
                     Why am I being asked to complete a FERPA release form?
                     
                     Since you no longer have, or have never had, an active myMemphis portal account, your
                        identity cannot be validated through the portal. FERPA regulations prevent UofM from releasing your educational records to any third party
                        without your written consent. Thus, you must complete and submit the release form.
                        But completing the form is a one-time requirement; you will not have to complete it
                        for subsequent requests.
                     
                     
                     Costs/Payment
                     
                     How much does using TOD cost?
                     
                     There is a $3.00 service fee charged for each transcript destination.
                     
                     Do I need to pay for my transcript processing before I receive my transcript?
                     
                     Yes. The service fee for Transcripts on Demand is charged when transcripts are ordered.
                        No refunds will be issued.
                     
                     
                     What forms of payment are accepted by Transcripts on Demand?
                     
                     Transcripts on Demand accepts credit or debit payments through Visa, MasterCard, American
                        Express, or Discover.
                     
                     
                     Notifications/Delivery
                     
                     How will I know if/when my transcript request has been processed?
                     
                     Upon submitting an order through Transcripts on Demand, an email will be sent to you
                        confirming that your order has been submitted. If you have requested electronic delivery,
                        emails will be sent after the order is processed and when the transcript is accessed
                        by the recipient.
                     
                     
                     How can I check on the current status of my transcript request?
                     
                     You may check on the status of your transcript order by returning to the sign-on process
                        you used to access TOD (either through the myMemphis portal or through iwantmytranscript.com).
                     
                     
                     When will I or my intended recipient receive the electronically delivered transcript?
                     
                     Order processing times may vary based on the number of orders received daily, but
                        normal processing time is 3–5 business days. If there are no problems with the request,
                        the electronically delivered transcript will be delivered minutes after it is processed.
                     
                     
                     What should I do if my transcript has not been received?
                     
                     
                        
                        If you requested that your transcript be sent electronically, contact the receiver.
                        
                        If you requested that your transcript be sent by USPS First Class mail, please allow
                           sufficient time for delivery.
                        
                        
                        If you requested that your transcript be sent by an express delivery service, use
                           your tracking number to determine the delivery status and direct inquiries/complaints
                           to the express delivery service.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     If your transcript has been lost, you will have to submit a new request and pay another
                        processing fee.
                     
                     
                     Will I have to provide my Social Security Number to place an order?
                     
                     Your UofM ID number is required to order transcripts but your Social Security Number
                        may be used as an alternative. If you are an international student without a social
                        security number and do not know your UofM ID number, contact the Registrar’s Office
                        at 901-678-2810 for guidance.
                     
                     
                     What if I need to change or correct my recipient's address information?
                     
                     Check the status of your request. If the UofM Registrar has not processed your request
                        yet, then contact the Registrar's Office with regard to changing the information.
                        Be prepared to supply information from your TOD receipt. If the order has been processed,
                        then you will have to make another request; you will be charged a new processing fee.
                     
                     
                     What if I need to send an attachment (application, form, etc.) with my transcript?
                     
                     You may upload as many as 5 pdf files (Attachments) when making your transcript request.
                        You must upload the files during the same session in which you make your request.
                        The attachments will be included with the transcript when delivered electronically
                        or by mail.
                     
                     
                     May I pick up my transcript in person?
                     
                     No. The pick-up option is currently unavailable in Transcripts on Demand.
                        
                     
                     
                     When will my transcript be mailed?
                     
                     All transcripts require 3-5 business days for processing; they are sent out after
                        this period.
                     
                     
                     How can I request express delivery of my hard-copy transcript?
                     
                     You will need to contact the Registrar at 901.678.3927 to arrange for special delivery
                        options. These options are not available online.
                     
                     
                     Additional Questions/Technical Support
                     
                     If you have questions or need additional assistance concerning SCRIP-SAFE International's
                        transcript ordering service, please contact a member of their staff at the following:
                     
                     
                     Email:         todsupport@scrip-safe.com
                     
                     Phone:       877.334.4062 (toll free)
                     
                     
                     Fax:        513.697.0012
                     
                     
                     For more information about SCRIP-SAFE, visit the company website .
                     
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Students
                        
                           
                              
                              Students
                              Enrollment Verification
                              Grades
                                    Overview
                                    GPA and Grading Scale
                                    Grade Change
                                    FAQ
                                 
                              
                              Transcripts
                                    Overview
                                    Official
                                    Unofficial
                                    Lambuth University
                                    FAQ
                                 
                              
                              FERPA and Student Educational Records
                                    Annual FERPA Notification
                                    Release of Student Education Record
                                 
                              
                              Changing Personal Data
                              Withdrawing from UofM
                              Self Service Guides
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Calendars
                              Academic calendars, dates/deadlines, exams.
                           
                           
                              Notice!
                              Check for alerts and reminders.
                           
                           
                              Contact Us 
                               Have questions? Need assistance or information?
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 12/3/15
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/students/records/todfaq.php
