http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/register/schedbldr.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Registrar
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Register
                        Students
                        Veterans
                        Faculty & Staff
                        Forms
                     
                     
                        
                           Register
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Register for Classes
                                       
                                       Quick Guide
                                       
                                       Schedule Builder
                                       
                                       Errors/Problems
                                       
                                       Holds
                                       
                                       Permits
                                       
                                       Credit by Exam
                                       
                                       Auditing
                                       
                                       Complete Self Service Guides
                                    
                                 
                                 Student Right-to-Know Information
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Registrar
                              	
                        
                              	Register
                              	
                        Schedule Builder
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Schedule Builder
                     
                     The Schedule Builder registration tool is a web-based schedule planner that presents you
                        with all possible schedule options that are currently available for registration.
                        With this tool, you can easily generate a class schedule that fits your individual
                        needs without having to resort to pen and paper.
                     
                     
                     
                           
                     
                     Instructional Guides/Videos
                     
                     
                        
                        Beginner: Scheduler Planner Basics
                        
                        Intermediate: Customizing Campus Options
                        
                        Intermediate: Using Locks to Narrow Down Schedules
                        
                        Intermediate: Customizing Parts of Term Options
                        
                        Advanced: Using Custom Course Options
                        
                     
                     
                     Getting Started
                     
                     Log into myMemphis and go to Student > Look Up Classes  after selecting the registration
                        term. Click on the Schedule Builder link, then wait a few seconds for the page to
                        redirect.
                     
                     
                     After you are redirected, you will be prompted to select a term. Click Save and Continue.
                     
                     Add Courses
                     
                     Clicking the Add Course button will take you to the Add Courses page, where you can
                        add course directly from your UMdegree academic plan by clicking on the "UMdegree" tab.
                     
                     
                     If you do not have an approved academic plan in UMdegree, you can search for courses
                        by "Subject" or "Gen Ed Requirement". Use the dropdowns to select a course and click
                        the Add Course button to add it to your desired course list. You can also enter text
                        into the Subject and Course dropdowns to search for the courses you are looking for.
                     
                     
                     Repeat this process using the Add Course button until you finish adding courses. Next,
                        return to the front page by clicking the Schedule Builder Back button (not your browser
                        Back button). (Note: You are not yet registered for these courses.)
                     
                     
                     Add Breaks
                     
                     Breaks allow you to block out times period where you do not want classes to be scheduled.
                        Be careful not to schedule too much break time, or you may get fewer schedule results.
                     
                     
                     To add a break, click the Add Break button and choose a block of time for your Break.
                        Click the Add Break button again to add it to your schedule.
                     
                     
                     Generate Schedule
                     
                     After you have added courses and breaks, click the Generate Schedules button to view your possible schedules.
                     
                     
                     If no schedules appear, a message will identify the time conflicts. Uncheck the least
                        desired conflicting course. Alternately, you may delete the conflicting course and
                        select an alternate course using the Add Course button.
                     
                     
                     View Schedule
                     
                     You can preview a possible schedule by hovering your mouse over the preview icon or
                        compare up to four schedules by checking the boxes in the list and clicking the Compare button.
                     
                     
                     Click on the View link to view a full-page schedule. Use the arrow buttons at the top of the page or
                        the arrow keys on your keyboard to navigate through each possible schedule from the
                        generated list.
                     
                     
                     When you have chosen a schedule, click the Send to Shopping Cart button.
                     
                     
                     Registration Cart
                     
                     The Send to Shopping Cart button takes you to your Schedule Builder Registration Cart . When you are ready, click the Register button to complete your registration. If you have any registration errors (holds,
                        permits, etc.), they will now appear. If no errors appear, your registration status
                        will be updated and you will now be registered.
                     
                     
                     However , if you are not ready or yet permitted to register, you can click Save Cart . Your classes will be saved in the Schedule Builder Registration Cart which you can access from the Student > Registration menu when you are ready to register for the classes. Please note that you are not
                        registered for classes until you click Register and your registration status confirms
                        that you have successfully registered.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        Important: If your Priority Registration time has not yet arrived, return to your Registration
                           Cart when it does arrive. However, some courses in your cart may be full by this time.
                           If so, clear them from your cart, return to Schedule Builder, and select from courses
                           that are still available.
                        
                        
                        After you click the Submit Changes button, check your results carefully to make sure
                           you are completely registered. Again, please note that myMemphis now enforces prerequisites,
                           permits, holds, and other restrictions. If any of these restrictions keep you from
                           registering, you will see a registration error.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Frequently Asked Questions
                     
                     What is Schedule Builder?
                     
                     Schedule Builder is an application that will generate all possible schedule combinations
                        based on your class selections, allowing you to evaluate which one will work best
                        for you.
                     
                     
                     Does Schedule Builder enroll me in the classes I select?
                     
                     NO! Schedule Builder does not enroll you in the classes you select through its functionality. You
                        must return to myMemphis and import your selected schedule to the shopping cart to
                        complete the enrollment process. Schedule Builder will add the schedule you select
                        to your shopping cart, but it does not enroll you in those classes. You will be subject
                        to the same registration restrictions (permits, pre-requisites, ect) that are present
                        using the Add or Drop Classes function in myMemphis.
                     
                     
                     Do I still need to look at Class Details?
                     
                     Yes, absolutely! It's only after the schedule is generated that the class section's
                        details display important information, like if seats are being held for a particular
                        student group, or whether the class section in question is an online section. In Schedule
                        Builder, full class details are viewed by clicking the Information icon after you've
                        generated schedules and you're looking at the class as part of a schedule. Always
                        read the fine print!
                     
                     
                     What does "Locking" a class do?
                     
                     If you want to ensure that a particular section of a particular class remains on every
                        schedule that Schedule Assistant generates, you click the Lock icon next to that class.
                        Just think to yourself, "If I like it, I can lock it!" However, remember that even
                        if you lock a class, you still must import the schedule you select to your shopping
                        cart to complete the enrollment process!
                     
                     
                     What happens when I "Favorite" a schedule?
                     
                     When you select a schedule as on of your "Favorites", you are simply saving the schedule
                        so you can come back and view it later without having to sift through the various
                        schedule options. Using the "Favorite" feature is particularly helpful when you are
                        building a schedule but cannot yet register for classes. When you are ready to register,
                        you can return to Scheduler Builder, view your favorite schedules, select which is
                        best for you, and then add that scheduler to the registration cart and register!
                     
                     
                     How can I filter my schedule results to show only ENGL 1010 combo classes?
                     
                     Once you have added ENGL 1010 to your list of Courses, click on the Options icon in the Courses list. Click on the checkbox to Uncheck All and then use the arrows at the bottom of the sections list to navigate to the page
                        showing sections that begin with E. Use the checkbox to select only course sections
                        beginning with E (E01, E02, etc.). Click Save & Close . Once you return to the main page, click Generate Schedules and you will now be presented with schedules that include only combo sections of
                        the course.
                     
                     
                     How can I filter my schedule results to show only schedules that include honors sections
                           of a particular course?
                     
                     Once you have added courses to your list of Courses, click on the Options icon in the Courses list. Click on the checkbox to Uncheck All and then use the arrows at the bottom of the section list to navigate to the page
                        showing sections that begin with 3. Use the checkbox to select only course sections
                        beginning with 3 (301, 302, etc.). Click Save & Close. Once you return to the main
                        page, click Generate Schedules and you will now be presented with schedules that include only honors sections of
                        the course you have selected. This must be done for each course you wish to limit
                        to honors sections only.
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Register
                        
                           
                              
                              Register for Classes
                                    
                                    Quick Guide
                                    
                                    Schedule Builder
                                    
                                    Errors/Problems
                                    
                                    Holds
                                    
                                    Permits
                                    
                                    Credit by Exam
                                    
                                    Auditing
                                    
                                    Complete Self Service Guides
                                 
                              
                              Student Right-to-Know Information
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Calendars
                              Academic calendars, dates/deadlines, exams.
                           
                           
                              Notice!
                              Check for alerts and reminders.
                           
                           
                              Contact Us 
                               Have questions? Need assistance or information?
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/31/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/register/schedbldr.php
