http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/students/selfserv/errors.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Registrar
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Register
                        Students
                        Veterans
                        Faculty & Staff
                        Forms
                     
                     
                        
                           Students
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Students
                                 Enrollment Verification
                                 Grades
                                       Overview
                                       GPA and Grading Scale
                                       Grade Change
                                       FAQ
                                    
                                 
                                 Transcripts
                                       Overview
                                       Official
                                       Unofficial
                                       Lambuth University
                                       FAQ
                                    
                                 
                                 FERPA and Student Educational Records
                                       Annual FERPA Notification
                                       Release of Student Education Record
                                    
                                 
                                 Changing Personal Data
                                 Withdrawing from UofM
                                 Self Service Guides
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Registrar
                              	
                        
                              	Students
                              	
                        Errors and Problems 
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Errors and Problems
                     
                     Below is a list of errors you might encounter when trying to register for classes.
                        If you encounter an error not discussed here, of if you need further clarification,
                        contact the Registrar (901.678.2810 / registrar@memphis.edu ).
                     
                     
                     Academic Standing Prohibits Registration
                     
                     
                        
                        Logout and contact the  Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services .
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Alternate PIN Screen
                     
                     
                        
                        No entry is valid: you need to be advised and cleared to register. Contact your advisor/advising
                           unit.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Authorization Failure - Invalid Alternate PIN.
                     
                     
                        
                        No entry for Alternate PIN is valid. Contact your advisor/advising unit to be cleared
                           to register.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     CLASS RESTRICTION
                     
                     
                        
                        You are trying to enroll in a course that is not appropriate for your student classification--Freshman,
                           Sophomore, Junior, Senior. (For example, if you have Sophomore standing or higher,
                           you cannot enroll in ACAD 1100.) You will not be able to register for this course
                           unless you receive a permit .
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     CLOSED SECTION
                     
                     
                        
                        All of the seats allotted for the section have been filled; you will not be able to
                           register for this section unless you receive a permit .
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     CO-REQUISITE ERROR
                     
                     
                        
                        You are attempting to add a course that requires one or more co-requisites, that is,
                           another course or courses that must be taken along with the course you have entered.
                           You need to add ALL required courses in one submission.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     DUPL CRSE WITH SEC...
                     
                     
                        
                        You have already added this course. If you wish to change sections, perform a drop-add
                           in one submission.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     LEVEL RESTRICTION
                     
                     
                        
                        You are trying to take a course/section that is not appropriate for your level--Undergraduate,
                           Graduate, or Law.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     LINK ERROR
                     
                     
                        
                        You have added only the lecture or lab section of a course that requires that both
                           the lab and the lecture be taken together in the term. Add both sections in one submission.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     MAJOR RESTRICTION
                     
                     
                        
                        You have tried to enroll in a course that is restricted to a particular major or majors;
                           you cannot register for this course without a permit .
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     MAXIMUM HOURS EXCEEDED
                     
                     
                        
                        You cannot exceed the maximum course load for your level without receiving special
                           permission. Refer to the Undergraduate Catalog and Graduate Catalog for more information.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     No Term Available
                     
                     
                        
                        You will receive this error when you try to register, or add or drop classes, when
                           registration for the term you have selected has been disabled. Term registration downtimes
                           are announced in advance on the Registrar's "Notice!" page. When required, this downtime
                           is usually scheduled overnight between 4:30pm on a Friday and 8:00am on Saturday and
                           is done because required maintenance or software updates must be performed.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     PERMIT REQUIRED
                     
                     
                        
                        You may register for this section only if you have a permit .
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     PREQ and TEST SCORE-ERROR
                     
                     
                        
                        The registration system has no record of your having taken this course's required
                           prerequisite or having tested out of the prerequisite. Example, you want ENGL 1020
                           but you have neither passed ENGL 1010 (or its equivalent), nor tested out of ENGL
                           1010.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     REPEAT COUNT EXCEEDS...
                     
                     
                        
                        Some courses may be repeated for credit, but only for a limited number of times. You
                           are attempting to add a course that you have already taken and passed for the limit.
                           To take it again, you will have to be granted a permit .
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     "SR" appears before classes listed in your Look Up Classes results
                     
                     
                        
                        SR = Student Restriction. "SR" rather than a registration check box may appear in
                           your Search results if:
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                        (1) You have not been admitted or readmitted for the term. See You require re-admission prior to registration below. (2) You have a registration hold on your record. See Holds  and Common Holds . (3) You don't have a registration Time ticket. See You have no registration time ticket below.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     TIME CONFLICT WITH ...
                     
                     
                        
                        You are trying to register for two or more courses whose meeting times overlap. Adjust
                           your schedule, or request a permit  for minor time conflicts (ex., one class ends at 9:15 but another starts at 9:15).
                        
                        
                        If you have registered for a Combo section, you are more likely to receive this error
                           than someone who hasn't. Combo sections have two meeting patterns--a MW pattern and
                           a TR pattern, and you must attend both meeting patterns. Because the TR pattern is
                           listed below the MW pattern in "Look Up Classes," students often overlook the TR pattern.
                           This can lead to the Time Conflict problem: another TR course you have registered
                           for is likely in conflict with the Combo's TR pattern.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     TOO MANY REGISTRATION ATTEMPTS
                     
                     
                        
                        The registration system allows you 1000 attempts at adding or dropping classes per
                           term. Once you exceed this maximum, you are "locked out" of that term's online registration. If
                           you are locked out, go to the Registrar's Office, 003 Wilder Tower for assistance.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     You are only permitted to register for [11.999 or 8.999] hours due to outstanding
                           immunization requirements. Please submit proof of MMR if full-time registration is
                           desired.
                     
                     
                        
                        The University does not have a record of your Measles-Mumps-Rubella (MMR) immunization.
                           Unless this is on file with Student Health Services, you will be restricted to a part-time
                           course load. For more information, see Immunization: MMR .
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     You have attempted to access a disabled page.
                     
                     
                        
                        You entered something in the SEARCH field in the top left-hand corner of the screen.
                           This search field has been disabled on all Self Service screens at UofM because it
                           allowed students direct access to registration features they were not authorized to
                           use.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     You have no Registration Time Ticket. Please contact the registration administrator.
                     
                     
                        
                        You cannot register yet for one of these reasons: (1) You have not been fully accepted
                           for admission. Call Undergraduate Admissions at 901.678.2111 or Graduate Admissions
                           at 901.678-3685 to inquire about your admission status. (2) You need to be readmitted because you did not attend during the last Fall or Spring term. (3) It's too early
                           for someone in your classification to register. Refer to the term's Dates & Deadlines calendar for your first day to register.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     You require re-admission prior to registration.
                     
                     
                        
                        When you skip a Fall or Spring term, you must apply for readmission .
                        
                        
                        Normally, you are allowed to skip the Summer term. However, if you apply for admission
                           or readmission to the Summer term, but don't take any Summer classes, you will receive
                           the re-admission error message if you try to register for Fall. Since you didn't take
                           Summer classes, the registration system "thinks" you decided not to attend at all.
                           
                           Also, if you admit or readmit for Summer and register for both Summer and Fall classes,
                              you will run into a problem with your Fall schedule if you drop your Summer schedule
                              during the Summer Drop Period. Even though you have a Fall schedule, you will not
                              be able to modify it. Because you dropped your Summer schedule, the registration system
                              now considers you an Inactive rather than Active student, and it will not allow an
                              Inactive student to register. You will not be able to modify your Fall schedule until
                              you apply for Fall readmission.
                           
                           
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Your Faculty or Advisor is reviewing your registration at this time. Please try again
                           later.
                     
                     
                        
                        Since your advisor has your registration record under review, you cannot update it.
                           Once the advisor closes the record, you will be able to access your record. If in
                           some rare instance you find that the record is locked for a very long time (hours),
                           you should probably contact your advisor.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Students
                        
                           
                              
                              Students
                              Enrollment Verification
                              Grades
                                    Overview
                                    GPA and Grading Scale
                                    Grade Change
                                    FAQ
                                 
                              
                              Transcripts
                                    Overview
                                    Official
                                    Unofficial
                                    Lambuth University
                                    FAQ
                                 
                              
                              FERPA and Student Educational Records
                                    Annual FERPA Notification
                                    Release of Student Education Record
                                 
                              
                              Changing Personal Data
                              Withdrawing from UofM
                              Self Service Guides
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Calendars
                              Academic calendars, dates/deadlines, exams.
                           
                           
                              Notice!
                              Check for alerts and reminders.
                           
                           
                              Contact Us 
                               Have questions? Need assistance or information?
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 9/7/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/students/selfserv/errors.php
