http://www.memphis.edu/commencement/apply/index.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Commencement Office
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Apply to Graduate
                        Graduates
                        Accommodations
                        Diplomas
                        Guests
                        Faculty
                     
                     
                        
                           Apply to Graduate
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Prerequisite to Apply to Graduate
                                 Deadlines
                                 Name Changes
                                 Cap and Gown Order
                                 Diploma Mailing Address
                                 FAQs
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Commencement Office
                              	
                        
                           	Apply to Graduate
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Prerequisite to Apply to Graduate (Step 1). 
                     
                     Congratulations! You are now close enough to completing your degree requirements to
                        be included in an upcoming commencement ceremony. Please be aware that participation in the commencement ceremony does not mean that you have been certified or necessarily will be certified
                        for graduation at the University of Memphis this semester. Certification, that is, actual degree conferral,
                        will depend upon your successful fulfillment of all of the requirements for receiving a degree in your
                        field as described in the Undergraduate Catalog of the University of Memphis.Congratulations on your upcoming
                        graduation from the UofM.
                     
                     
                     Read this information in its entirety. This is Step 1 ( REQUIRED ). Reading "Prerequisite to Apply to Graduate" is your First Step in the Four-Steps to Graduation process.  All students must file for graduation by their deadline and submit any additional
                           forms required by his or her college/school.   By reading this required information, you understand that your participation in the
                           commencement ceremony does not mean you will graduate officially; degree conferral
                           depends upon successful completion of all of the degree requirements described in
                           the Undergraduate Catalog and Graduate School and Department Requirements.
                     
                     NOTICE :  Students graduating in the Spring/May Semester each year are subject to a Commencement
                              date change. Please read below for details. 
                     
                     Requirements to Apply to Graduate
                     
                     Undergraduates - 80 earned hours, 1.95 GPA
                     
                     
                     Graduates (Masters, Specialists, Doctoral)  - 3.00 GPA ( Must Apply for Graduation and SUBMIT a CANDIDACY FORM. Additional Details are below )
                     
                     
                     Law - 55 hours, 1.90 GPA
                     
                     
                     Additional Requirements listed : 
                     
                     
                     Undergraduate Students : If you have attended another college or university, having transfer credit in UMdegree
                        is essential for the graduation checkout to be accurate. Please notify your advisor
                        if you have missing transfer credits. For further questions about academic coursework,
                        please contact your Graduation Analyst.
                     
                     
                     Graduate Students : All degree seeking student filing for graduation are required to submit candidacy forms(masters/doctoral/certificate program/EDS Program of Study and Candidacy Form ) for processing by the Graduate School. The candidacy form cannot be submitted electronically ; therefore, you will be required to obtain signatures from the departmental advisor.
                        Signatures are required from the departmental advisor, graduate studies coordinator,
                        and College Director of Graduate Studies. Candidacy forms received by the College
                        Director of Graduate Studies after the semester deadline will not be approved; therefore,
                        we strongly recommend that you submit the form to your departmental advisor at least
                        one to two weeks prior to the college directors' deadline. Failure to submit this
                        form will delay your graduation. 
                     
                     
                     Law Students : Students must return the Law School Graduation Checklist to the Law Registrar prior
                        to completing the Application to Graduate. For further information about your academic
                        coursework, contact the Law School Registrar.
                     
                     
                     Apply to graduate process
                     
                     
                        
                        After you completely read this entire webpage, return to your myMemphis portal. Click
                           on the My Degree tab and then locate the Commencement channel to access Step 2, Apply
                           to Graduate. Completion of Step 2 and Step 3, Diploma Mailing/Cap and Gown Form, is
                           required of all students who are applying to graduate whether or not you plan to attend
                           the Commencement ceremony. Again, actual ceremony attendance and/or non-attendance
                           information will be collected mid-term of your graduating semester.
                        
                        
                        Proceed to STEP 2 – Apply to Graduate REQUIRED   – and you are required to select a term, choose the most recent term or the term in
                              which you were last enrolled in your degree-seeking program (degree, majors, concentrations,
                              and/or minors).
                        
                        Once your application to graduate has been submitted, any changes must be routed through
                           your Graduation Analyst. You can view your submitted application by selecting "View
                           Application to Graduate".
                        
                        
                        STEP 3 . Diploma Name, Address and Cap and Gown Form . REQUIRED step by all graduating students whether attending or not. There are NO additional
                           fees. If you are unsure of your cap size, stop by 101 Brister Hall, M-F 8a-430p, for
                           proper measurement.
                        
                        
                        STEP 4-   FINAL Graduation FORM . REQUIRED  This step will be sent to your Memphis email in your FINAL semester.
                        
                        
                        You must complete an application to graduate for each degree. For example, select
                           the College of Arts and Sciences' Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Psychology.
                           Submit the application. Return to Apply to Graduate to select your second degree,
                           complete the application, and submit.
                        
                        
                        If you plan to graduate with more than one degree and the degrees will be completed
                           in different terms, you must complete the Diploma Mailing/Cap and Gown Information
                           form for each of the terms (for example, Fall 2013 for Bachelor of Arts and Spring
                           2014 for Bachelor of Science).
                        
                        
                        ATTENTION : Students must be approved for graduation prior to being able to participate and
                           remain on the graduation list. If you are lacking any coursework, lacking any REQUIRED forms, etc. , this will affect your approval status and delay your graduation until that coursework
                           is met.
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Important News from the Commencement Office
                     
                     
                        
                        Undergraduate Diplomas only reflect the degree and any honors distinctions and departmental
                           honors. Majors and Concentrations are available on your transcripts ONLY.
                        
                        
                        Some Graduate Diplomas, including Doctoral degrees, list the degree only on the diploma.
                           Majors and Concentrations are available on your transcripts.
                        
                        
                        All students in the program are walking based on their prior semester GPA. Any changes
                           in honors will be reflected on the Undergraduate Diploma at the time of certification.
                           Graduate School Diplomas do NOT denote any honors.
                        
                        
                        Spring graduation may conflict with the Grizzlies playoff schedule, so there could
                           be a possible date change. If you are graduating in the spring semester, read about
                           it here.
                        
                        
                        Second majors and second concentrations do not participate in the Commencement ceremony.
                           They do not walk. They are not listed in the program and they do not receive a second
                           diploma. For example, in May 2011, student received a Bachelor of Professional Studies
                           with a concentration Health Services degree, and returned in May 2012 and added a
                           concentration within Professional Studies. In May 2012, student received a Bachelor
                           of Arts degree with a major in English, and returns in December 2012 and gets a second
                           major in History. These are the same degree, so no second diploma, program name or
                           participation.
                        
                        
                        Graduate Certificate ONLY students do not participate in the Commencement ceremony.
                           Names are listed in the spring Commencement program only.
                        
                        
                        Step 4 - Completion of the Step 4 is required for both students participating in the
                           Commencement ceremony (attending) and for students not planning to participate (not
                           attending). This includes all levels of students: doctoral, masters, specialists,
                           law and undergraduates. Attendance is collected by semester so only the current semester
                           graduating student fills out the form. Ceremony attendance information will be collected
                           by the Commencement Office during the middle of your graduating semester. See below
                           for when you need to fill out your card.
                        
                        
                        If you are applying to graduate in spring (May) -The May Commencement always has the
                           possibility of changing dates due to the Grizzlies playoff schedule. Please plan and
                           have guests plan accordingly (Saturday or Sunday event possibility). If you are graduating
                           in the May (spring) Commencement ceremonies, we highly recommend and encourage you
                           to speak to your guests to plan for Commencement weekend, pending further information
                           regarding the Grizzlies NBA Playoff Schedule. We recommend booking any return flights
                           (transportation) either late on Sunday (depending on the graduating students college
                           or school) or Monday morning following Commencement. Please share the spring possible
                           back-up-date information with all guests (immediate and extended family and friends).
                           We appreciate your help in helping us spread the word. Confirmation of actual dates
                           and times will be sent out via the graduating students Memphis email account, on our
                           website and@UoMCommencement (Twitter).
                        
                        
                     
                     
                     Graduation Term Complete Step 4 -- You will receive an email in your FINAL semester. Failure to complete any Step will
                                 result in your graduation being cancelled . 
                     
                     
                        
                        August graduates will be asked to submit Step 4 in June/July.
                        
                        December graduates will be asked to submit Step 4 in October.
                        
                        May graduates will be asked to submit Step 4 in February. 
                        
                     
                     
                     Call 901.678.5547 with questions.
                     
                     ATTENTION : Students must be approved for graduation prior to being able to participate and
                           remain on the graduation list. If you are lacking any coursework, lacking any REQUIRED forms , etc., this will affect your approval status and delay your graduation until that
                           coursework is met. 
                     
                     By reading this   required   information, you understand and agree to all of this information and that your participation
                           in the commencement ceremony does not mean that students have graduated; degree conferral
                           depends upon successful completion of all of the degree requirements  described in the   Undergraduate Catalog   and   Graduate School and Department Requirements . 
                     
                      
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Apply to Graduate
                        
                           
                              
                              Prerequisite to Apply to Graduate
                              Deadlines
                              Name Changes
                              Cap and Gown Order
                              Diploma Mailing Address
                              FAQs
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Got questions? Let us know how we may assist you.
                           
                           
                              Commencement Attendance Form
                              Will you be attending Commencement?  Inform us!
                           
                           
                              News
                              Learn about possible date changes, future and past Commencements, Honors Assembly
                                 and more.
                              
                           
                           
                              Commencement Live
                              Can't attend Commencement?  Watch it live!
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 11/4/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/commencement/apply/index.php
