http://www.memphis.edu/honors/news/
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Helen Hardin Honors Program
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Admission
                        Benefits
                        Graduating
                        Involvement
                        Forms
                        Courses
                        News
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Helen Hardin Honors Progam
                              	
                        
                           	News
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Honors News Room
                     
                     2016 WORKS IN PROGRESS SYMPOSIUM
                     
                     The Helen Hardin Honors Program is proud to sponsor the 2016 Works in Progress Symposium.
                        This annual event provides a means for undergraduate students throughout the university
                        to share their research with the general university community, and recognizes the
                        significant contribution to research by University of Memphis undergraduates. This
                        year's symposium is one of the largest ever, featuring over 40 student presenters.
                        We have presentations in topics from dance to engineering, political science to robotics!
                        For an overview and schedule of this year's presentations, click here .
                     
                     
                     2016 Honors Summer Research Fellowship
                     
                     The Helen Hardin Honors Program provides funding for a summer research fellowship
                        to promote research and creative activity among honors students. Selected Fellows
                        will receive funding to present their research at the National Conference for Undergraduate
                        Research and other national or regional honors conferences. By participating in the
                        extensive research requirements of the program and by presenting their research at
                        conferences, Fellows will earn the University's "Undergraduate Research Scholar" designation
                        on their transcript. 
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     
                     Name: Anna Marsh
                     
                     Faculty Mentor: Dr. Loretta Rudd
                     
                     Department: Childhood Development
                     
                     
                     
                     The Child Life Profession is an up and coming career option that has becoming increasingly
                           popular with undergraduate students. Child Life Specialists knowledge base is in child
                           developmental theory, and they work to help children going through crisis develop
                           at a normal pace and establish valuable coping skills despite that crisis. Traditionally,
                           this field has been practiced in the hospital setting. As the profession has become
                           more recognized as a needed area of expertise, there are more students seeking opportunities
                           as Certified Child Life Professionals. This makes for a very competitive job market.
                     
                     My research will focus on finding out what specific coursework, skills and abilities,
                           and co-curricular activities within university involvement are most beneficial in
                           the competitive process to becoming certified in this professional domain. The end
                           goal of this research is to put together a curriculum plan for a specific Child Life
                           degree program to be taught at the University of Memphis and to promote students involvement.
                           In addition, I will further this research by reaching out to other organizations outside
                           of the hospital setting, in the Memphis area specifically, that could benefit from
                           hiring child life personnel. This would give the new degree program the outlets it
                           needs to give students experience while in college, whether through shadowing or internship
                           opportunities, and more jobs in the community after they graduate.
                     
                     
                     
                     Name: David LeVine Faculty Mentor: Dr. Amber Jennings Department: Biomedical Engineering
                     
                     My research focuses on optimizing the actuation of drug loaded magnetic nanoparticles
                           via an external magnetic field. Development of the novel drug delivery system would
                           give clinicians the "on-demand" ability to treat localized target areas non-invasively.
                           Points of interest for my work include the stability and lifespan of the biopolymer
                           matrix our magnetic nanoparticles are incorporated into, as well as the the prime
                           range for magnetic field stimulation to release the most drug over a prolonged period
                           of time without permanent and adverse deformation of the nanoparticles.
                     
                       
                     
                     
                     
                     Name: Jacob Sinowetski
                     
                     Faculty Mentor: Dr. Ryan Parrish
                     
                     Department: Earth Science
                     
                     
                     
                     For my Summer Research Fellowship I will test the effects of different knapping preparation
                        methods upon different tool stone materials used by prehistoric peoples. I will use
                        a ten ton hydraulic press with a pressure gauge in order to consistently and precisely
                        measure the amount of force required to successfully remove a flake. Each flake will
                        likewise be measured in order to determine the relative flake sized each treatment
                        method produces. Each piece of material will be knapped several times while in an
                        untreated state, a water treated state, and a heat treated state.
                     
                     
                       
                     
                     Name: Valissa Harris Faculty Mentor: Dr. Gayle Beck
                     
                     Department: Psychology
                     
                     
                     
                     The goal of my honors thesis in psychology is to examine how participants attribute
                        blame in abusive   dating relationships. In particular, this study will investigate
                        whether the victim's response (e.g., assertive or passive) and the form of IPV (e.g.,
                        psychological or physical) impact how the participants attribute blame. In addition
                        to examining how the participants attribute blame, this study will also investigate
                        other possible outcomes related to attribution of blame, such as the perception of
                        the victim (e.g., positive or negative), perpetrator exclusion of responsibility,
                        the seriousness of the IPV, and advice for the victim. This study will also examine
                        whether or not there is a correlation between the participant's acceptance of domestic
                        violence myths and attribution of blame.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     
                     Name: Joseph McGuire
                     
                     Faculty Mentor: Robert Hetherington
                     
                     Department: Theatre
                     
                     The Queer Faith Project (working title) is a documentary theatre piece that explores
                           the relationship between LGBT+ experiences and faith and religion. Documentary theatre
                           is a style of theatre that uses interviews and found text to explore complex ideas
                           and themes through real life stories. Through my own personal experience and multiple
                           stories I have realized that many LGBT+ individuals have many experiences both good
                           and bad with religion that have effected their entire lives. Through interview LGBT+
                           individuals with a variety of belief systems I hope to discover where this relationship
                           between sexuality and religion begins and how the relationship uniquely affects LGBT+
                           individuals.
                     
                      
                     
                     Name: Rachel Waters
                     
                     Faculty Mentor: Dr. Beth Messinger
                     
                     Department: Psychology
                     
                     
                     
                     For my honors thesis in Psychology, I will be examining the psychometric properties
                           of two different retell data scoring methods in a sample of dyslexic third and fourth
                           graders. The two scoring methods, clause-based and idea unit-based, differ in terms
                           of characteristics (length versus amount of information, respectively) as well as
                           scoring procedures. Not only is it important to see which method is more reliable
                           and appropriate for reading and/or language disabled children, but it is also important
                           to understand how these measures compare to other measures of reading comprehension
                           in general. My research will be a secondary data analysis focusing on creating coding
                           and scoring protocols these retell data, then comparing to other measures of reading
                           comprehension.
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     
                     Name: Jarrett Anderson Faculty Mentor: Dr. Eddie Jacobs
                     
                     Department: Electrical and Computer Engineering
                     
                     
                     
                     My honors research project will consist of the design, assembly, and testing of a
                           digital in-line holographic microscope. This device does not use a lens, nor does
                           it need to be focused like a traditional camera. It captures holograms rather than
                           images, allowing a computer to reconstruct images of the scene at various depths.
                           I will also be assisting in the creation of a triangulation-based 3-D scanner, which
                           will use images taken from two cameras to construct a 3-D model of a scene. Once completed,
                           these devices will find uses throughout the engineering department.
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                     Name: Brandon Coldicott
                     
                     Faculty Mentor: Dr. Ebrahim Asadi
                     
                     Department: Mechanical Engineering
                     
                     
                     
                     My honor's project is in the simulation of metals near their melting point. I will
                           study the grain boundary free energy of body centered cubic iron, and its evolution
                           over diffusive time scales using the two-mode phase-field crystal (PFC) model. This
                           study will be extended to document the effect misorientation angles have on the final
                           grain boundary energy. The PFC model offers enormous boosts in computational efficiency
                           over molecular dynamics approaches, and is being proven to be a valuable tool for
                           computational material scientists. This research hopes to help verify the PFC model's
                           ability to accurately represent the physics of solidification, and cement its role in the study
                           and development of materials. 
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     
                     Name: Martina Rodriguez Sala Faculty Mentor: Dr. Firouzeh Sabri
                     
                     Department: Physics
                     
                     
                     
                     This summer thanks to the honors summer research fellowship I will be working on a
                           biophysics project that focus on understanding how neurons interface with solid substrates
                           such as aerogels. This understanding is very important for the design of new materials
                           for nerve repair and the design of smart implants. I will learn how to culture neural
                           cells onto solid substrates and I will compare the cellular response of neurons on
                           plastics and aerogels. The expected outcome is that neurons will extend their extension
                           in a different manner on aerogels than they would of planar surfaces such as plastic
                           substrates.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Name: Lauren Wilson Faculty Mentor: Dr. Gary Bowlin Department: Biomedical Engineering
                     
                     
                     
                     For my summer research fellowship project, I will be working on a first-of-its-kind,
                        in situ quantification of human plasma proteins, to determine which proteins absorb
                        onto the surface of electrospun templates and to quantify that protein absorption.
                        When a biomaterial is placed in the body, proteins absorb onto the surface, and cells
                        interact with these absorbed proteins, not the material itself. Knowing the type and
                        amount of proteins absorbed onto a template will help people to better understand
                        the initial steps of immune response to biomaterials or implanted devices and will
                        help them to engineer templates to direct desired responses.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     BUILDING COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPS THROUGH EDUCATION
                     
                     Over the past year, the University of Memphis' Helen Hardin Honors Program has been
                        partnering with Shelby Farms Park Conservancy to develop an exciting alternative break
                        opportunity for Honors Students. Shelby Farms Park Conservancy has partnered with
                        University of Memphis professors from various departments including Public Administration
                        and Nonprofit Management, Anthropology, Architecture, and Earth Sciences to create
                        a dynamic curriculum for their Fall and Spring Break Camps. The University of Memphis
                        students utilize what is taught to them in the classroom to create hands-on learning
                        opportunities for the campers at Shelby Farms Park. During their school breaks, the
                        college students educate Memphis youth about a variety of topics, while also utilizing
                        the environmental education that lives within Shelby Farms Park. Schools and community
                        partnerships such as this bring together resources in a creative way and create a
                        strategic educational application for the college and elementary-aged student alike.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Apply Online
                              There are many advantages associated with membership in the Helen Hardin Honors Program.
                           
                           
                              Opportunities
                              Learn more about undergraduate research, Phi Kappa Phi Honors Society, Scholarships
                                 and Study Abroad.
                              
                           
                           
                              National Student Exchange
                              Find out more about the unique opportunity to study at another NSE institution for
                                 up to a calendar year.
                              
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/27/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/honors/news/
