http://www.memphis.edu/fedex/drones/
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			FedEx Institute of Technology
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                        
                           			
                           
                           
                           
                           	
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Research Clusters
                        Events
                        Our Team
                     
                     
                        
                           Research Clusters
                           
                              
                                 
                                 DRONES Research 2016
                                 DRONES Cluster Research Workshop
                                 Upcoming Events
                                 Research Fellows
                                 Contact the Cluster
                                 Commercial Drone Expo
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	FedEx Institute
                              	
                        
                           	Research Clusters
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     DRONES - Drones, RObotics, and Navigation Enabled Systems
                     
                     The DRONES cluster at the FedEx Institute is committed to the development of innovative
                        research, corporate partnership, an community engagement in all aspects related to
                        Drones, Robotics, and Navigation Enabled Systems (including autonomous vehicles).
                        We believe that Memphis has the potential to lead the nation in these areas by leveraging
                        the organizations, the talent, and the abilities of the technology community in Memphis.
                     
                     
                     2016 Projects
                     
                     Application of amphibious drone technology to enable environmental monitoring and
                           sampling to support disaster response and drinking water resource protection
                     
                     Deep Learning Enabled Non-­invasive Cognitive Interface: Where Machine Meets the Mind
                     
                     Enhancing Human Capabilities using Unmanned Systems and Drones
                     
                     Considering the Potential Impact of Autonomous Vehicles on Transportation Planning
                           and Equity in Memphis
                     
                     Secure Information Sharing among Autonomous Vehicles
                     
                     Engineering Novel light weight Supercapacitor: Batteries for Ultra-Light-Vehicles
                     
                     Restoring Damaged Metallic Parts of Robots, Autonomous Vehicles, and Drones by Additive
                           Manufacturing
                     
                     Investigating the impact of adopting/using drones on the bargaining power of farmers
                           in a contract process
                     
                     Integrated Platforms and Algorithms of Multisensory Data Capture and Decision Support
                           for Autonomous Vehicles
                     
                     Drone Journalism Course Proposal
                     
                     Legal Aspects of Drones
                     
                      
                     
                     About the Cluster
                     
                      The DRONES research cluster represents a major interdisciplinary collaborative effort
                        focusing on research, education, and technology transfer at the University's FedEx
                        Institute of Technology. DRONES comprises a consortium of experts in robotics, autonomous
                        vehicles, and drones, who provide proactive leadership and cohesion to the region's
                        interests in these state-of-the-art challenges. Private corporations based in Tennessee
                        and state government agencies join together to tackle public policy questions and
                        to find ways to incorporate these exciting new technologies in the industrial ventures
                        that drive the state's economic growth.
                     
                     
                     The FedEx Institute of Technology at the University of Memphis is positioned and is
                        highly motivated to serve as a development and coordination engine in support of local
                        industry's efforts to utilize the latest technologies in support of their businesses.
                     
                     
                     DRONES' three major areas of technology: robotics, autonomous vehicles, and drones,
                        represent three high-technology mobile platforms (although many industrial robots
                        are stationary) that are generating intense current industrial interest. Mobile robots
                        range from experimental humanoid robots to independently operating vacuum cleaners.
                        Autonomous vehicles include driverless automobiles on our public roadways, vehicles
                        that follow wires embedded in roads, and automated mail delivery vehicles in office
                        buildings. Drones range from military aircraft that carry missiles to inexpensive
                        hobbyist toys. Industrial applications for drones have been suggested that range from
                        package delivery to monitoring agricultural fields. Furthermore, there is broad overlap
                        in the technologies involved in these three types of mobile platforms including machine
                        vision, sensors, object recognition, object avoidance, and the processing of "big
                        data" collected by them. The DRONES Cluster takes a broad view of these issues surrounding
                        these mobile platform technologies. In addition to the engineering and computer science
                        aspects, it focuses on such issues regarding them as financial implications, risk,
                        public relations, and legal ramifications.
                     
                     
                     Through the DRONES initiative, the University of Memphis will be recognized as a thought
                        leader in these highly advanced mobile platform technologies. DRONES is a key interdisciplinary
                        program of the university's FedEx Institute of Technology which intends to help the
                        university's students prepare for careers in the technology-oriented future, as well
                        as supporting local industry with relevant, targeted research and training.
                     
                     
                     DRONES initiatives include:
                     
                     Research – Pure and applied research on all aspects of mobile platforms – robotics,
                        autonomous vehicles, and drones – including rigorous scholarly examination of challenging
                        industry problems.
                     
                     
                     Training, Certification Programs, and Educational Curricula – A world-class training
                        and education center in robotics, autonomous vehicles, and drones.
                     
                     
                     Collaborative International Workshop – An international meeting place for academic
                        and industry experts on mobile platforms providing a forum for a collaborative exchange
                        of ideas and knowledge.
                     
                     
                     Technology Transfer – Utilizing the University's Office of Technology Transfer, we
                        intend to convert new mobile platform innovations into commercial products, benefitting
                        the region, the State of Tennessee, and our nation.
                     
                     
                     Through DRONES research, training, certification, and curricular efforts, DRONES is
                        a valuable state and national resource, providing educational and outreach activities
                        that foster next-generation workforce development.
                     
                     
                     DRONES Research Cluster Director: Mark L. Gillenson, PhD, CCP Professor of Business Information and Technology Fogelman College of Business and Economics University of Memphis 3675 Central Avenue Memphis, TN 38152 Mark.Gillenson@memphis.edu 1 (901) 678-5607
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Research Clusters
                        
                           
                              
                              DRONES Research 2016
                              DRONES Cluster Research Workshop
                              Upcoming Events
                              Research Fellows
                              Contact the Cluster
                              Commercial Drone Expo
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Research
                              World-class researchers addressing critical emerging technology challenges
                           
                           
                              Technology Transfer
                              The home of University of Memphis intellectual property
                           
                           
                              Corporate Engagement
                              Collaboration leads to innovation
                           
                           
                              Newsroom
                              Catch up on what the Institute has been doing. 
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/1/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/fedex/drones/
