http://www.memphis.edu/mlche/
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens."
READ MORE  (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			The Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Programs
                        Students
                        Faculty & Staff
                        Research
                        News
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                           	MLCHE
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Center News
                     
                     March 2016
                     
                     Do you know how much uncompensated care is provided by hospitals, clinics and physicians
                        in Tennessee? What have been the recent trends of this care for which providers receive
                        no payments? For these and other related issues, please read a recently released Health
                        Care Policy Blog titled, “ Uncompensated Care in Tennessee: What Are the Costs? 
                              ” by David Mirvis and Cyril Chang.
                     
                     
                     December 2015
                     
                     What has happened to employer-sponsored health insurance in Tennessee? If you are
                        interested in knowing what has been ACA’s impact on the proportion of Tennessee employers
                        that offer health insurance and the percentage of workers who are covered, read a
                        newly released health policy blog titled, “ Employer-Sponsored Health Insurance in Tennessee: What’s Happening to Coverage? 
                              .”
                     
                     
                     November 2015
                     
                     A recent hospital closure report prepared with the participation of the Methodist
                           Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics made national health headlines . In a financial management story, the Becker’s Hospital CFO reported on November
                        12, 2015, that 31 rural hospitals in Mississippi were so financially vulnerable that
                        they were at risk of closure. The story was based in part on the results prepared
                        by Dr. Cyril Chang, the Director of the Center for Methodist Le Bonheur Center for
                        Healthcare Economics, for a hospital closure report commissioned by the Center for
                        Mississippi Health Policy. The research team that prepared the report was led by Dr.
                        Maya McDoom-Echebiri of Mississippi State University and other team members included
                        Dr. John Gnuschke of the Sparks Bureau and Dr. David Mirvis of the Methodist Le Bonheur
                        Center for Healthcare Economics. The Becker’s Hospital Review article can be seen
                        here   and the Mississippi at risk hospital report can be downloaded here 
                              .
                     
                     
                     October 2015
                     
                     The Center has released a third Health Policy Blog titled, "Health Insurance Exchanges:
                        Who in Tennessee has Enrolled?" It examines the participation of Tennesseans in the
                        federal Health Insurance Exchange, the role of federal subsidies in insurance participation,
                        and how the Exchange enrollment has impacted the uninsured in Tennessee. To read it,
                        click here 
                              .
                     
                     
                     August 2015
                     
                     The Center has released a second Health Policy Blog titled, “Variations in Health
                        Care Charges: Does Anyone Know How Much It Will Cost?” To read it, click here 
                              .
                     
                     
                     July 2015
                     
                     The Center is pleased to announce a new series of online publications – Health Care
                        Blogs. The short reports will focus on assessing the relevance of new findings on
                        the health care system financing and functions to Tennessee. They will appear periodically
                        and can be accessed through the Center's web site. Comments from readers will be welcome
                        using the e-mail addresses included in each report. The first report focuses on the
                        adequacy of the primary care physician supply in Tennessee. In addition to providing
                        data on the size and composition the physician workforce, the essay considers the
                        health and economic consequences of the current and future gap between primary care
                        demand and supply. To download the report, click here 
                              .
                     
                     
                     The Center has released a new Research Brief titled, “Visitors to Hospital Emergency
                        Rooms: Who, Why, and How Much Do They Cost?” To read the Research Brief, click here 
                              .
                     
                     
                     June 2015
                     
                     Dr. Cyril Chang's op-ed article, co-authored with Dr. David Mirvis, appeared in the
                        June 29th edition of the Memphis Commercial Appeal. It explained the implications
                        of the most recent Supreme Court case and cautioned that the King v. Burwell ruling
                        supporting the ACA was only one step, albeit an important one, on the road to a truly
                        effective health care system. To read the op-ed article, click here .
                     
                     
                     February 2015
                     
                     The Center will host Dr. Marjie Harbracht of HealthTeamWorks, a Denver-based multi-stakeholder
                        collaborative working to redesign healthcare delivery system, as speaker for the Health
                        Care Research Journal Club. She will discuss patient-centered medical homes on February
                        25, 2015, at the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. For more information,
                        click here 
                              .
                     
                     
                     October 2014
                     
                     The Center has updated its TennCare Timeline to include major events and milestones
                        to October 2014.  Read it here 
                              .
                     
                     
                     August 2014
                     
                     The Center has made available sources of useful information on the impacts of ObamaCare
                        reform on Tennessee and the Memphis area.  Use this link to access them .
                     
                     
                     June 2014
                     
                     Shelby County Health Statistics The County Health Rankings & Roadmaps is a collaborative program between the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and the University of Wisconsin Population Health Institute . Visit this site for health statistics for the 95 counties in Tennessee and their rankings.  Here
                        are two useful reports about Shelby County, Tennessee. Here and Here .
                     
                     
                     April 2014
                     
                     Dr. Chang, the Director of Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics, was
                        quoted at length in an April 9, 2014 , Memphis Commercial Appeal article by reporter Kevin McKenzie about the release of
                        Medicare doctor reimbursement data by the Center of Medicare and Medicaid.  This was
                        followed by a second article in the Nashville paper, the Tennessean, on the same topic on 04/09/2014 .  Four days later on 04/13/2014 , The Chattanooga Press Free Press published a long news analysis article on the controversy
                        surrounding the release of Medicare doctor data and quoted Dr. Chang extensively.
                     
                     
                     October 2013
                     
                     Dr. Cyril Chang, The Director of the Center, published an op-ed article on health
                        care and free market.  The article appeared in the October 13, 2013, edition of the
                        Memphis Commercial Appeal.  Click here to read . The Center was in the news.  Reporter Kevin McKenzie of the Memphis Commercial Appeal
                        quoted the Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics at length in an article
                        about high-deductible health plans.  Click here to read .
                     
                     
                     [ News Archive ]
                     
                     
                     Mailing Lists
                     
                     MLCHE now has several topic-based mailing lists, including alerts for new publications.
                        Please visit the Contact Us page for more information and to sign up.
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              About Us
                              What does the MLCHE do?  Your first step starts here!
                           
                           
                              Publications
                              Stay connected with our research-active faculty. Click here to see some of our most
                                 recent publications. 
                              
                           
                           
                              Staff and Associates
                              Learn more about the people that compose the MLCHE!
                           
                           
                              Contact Us
                              Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us!
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        Follow Us Online
                        
                           Twitter
                           Facebook
                        
                                          Event Calendar Support the FCBE
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 3/17/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/mlche/
