http://www.memphis.edu/ehs/programs/training.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Being the first one in my family to attend college."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Office of Environmental Health and Safety
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Programs
                        Resources
                        Emergencies
                        SDS
                        Contact Us
                     
                     
                        
                           Programs
                           
                              
                                 
                                 Biological Safety
                                 Chemical Safety
                                 Chematix Log-in
                                 Fire Safety
                                 General Safety
                                 Hazardous Waste
                                 Indoor Air Quality
                                 Occupational Health
                                 Radiation Safety
                                 Training
                                 UofM Stormwater Program
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	EH&S
                              	
                        
                              	Programs
                              	
                        Training 
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     Training
                     
                     EH&S ON-LINE TRAINING PORTAL
                     
                     Click link above to log in to one of the following courses:
                     
                     
                        
                        Aerial and Scissor Lift Safety
                        
                        Electrical Safety
                        
                        Hand and Power Tool Safety
                        
                        Hazard Communication
                        
                        Laboratory Safety
                        
                        Laser Safety
                        
                        Lock-out/Tag-out
                        
                        Personal Fall Arrest
                        
                        Powered Industrial Trucks
                        
                        Preventing Slips, Trips, and Falls
                        
                     
                     
                     Please contact Al Simpson (901.678.4672) for access to this training.
                     
                     
                     
                     Biological Safety
                     
                     Bloodborne Pathogens
                     
                     This course is intended to provide information and training for all employees whose
                        routine job responsibilities place them at risk of exposure to blood or the potentially
                        infectious materials. This training should be completed annually.
                     
                     
                     Please contact Eric Swauncy  (901.678.1625) for blood borne pathogen training.
                     
                     
                     
                     Chemical Safety
                     
                     Hazard Communication Right-to-Know Training
                     
                     This training course applies to all employees who may be exposed to hazardous chemical
                        under normal conditions of use or in a foreseeable emergency.
                     
                     
                     Topics covered include the following:
                     
                     
                        
                        Hazard identification
                        
                        Chemical hazard labeling
                        
                        Material Safety Data Sheets
                        
                        Employee Protection Methods
                        
                     
                     
                     Hazardous Material Transportation 
                     
                     This training course is designed to offer those employees at the University of Memphis
                        who offer for shipment, receive, or are otherwise involved with the transportation
                        of hazardous materials an understanding of the regulations governing such activities.
                     
                     
                     Topics covered include:
                     
                     
                        
                        Identification and recognition of a hazardous material
                        
                        Emergency response
                        
                        Employee protection methods
                        
                        Accident prevention methods
                        
                        The Hazardous Materials Table
                        
                        The CERCLA Reportable Quantities Table (available in the hazardous materials table)
                        
                        Hazardous material containers
                        
                        Hazardous waste manifests.
                        
                     
                     
                     Please contact Erik Tyge (901.678.2044) for chemical safety training.
                     
                     
                     
                     environmental Compliance
                     
                     Hazardous Waste Management
                     
                     This course is designed to familiarize employees with the regulations and requirements
                        for proper storage and disposal of hazardous waste.  (This one hour course is available
                        on-line.  See instructions below for registration)
                     
                     
                     Topics covered include:
                     
                     
                        
                        Hazardous waste identification and classification
                        
                        Hazardous waste container management
                        
                        Satellite accumulation point requirements
                        
                        Spill response procedures.
                        
                     
                     
                     Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasures
                     
                     This class is intended for University personnel who are involved in implementing the
                        SPCC program. Covered topics include regulatory requirements, spill control, preventative
                        measures, and an overview of responsibilities related to the SPCC. This class consists
                        of a 45 minute presentation.
                     
                     
                     S torm Water Pollution Prevention
                     
                     This class provides participants with an awareness of problems associated with storm
                        water pollution, how to avoid these problems, and an overview of the University Storm
                        Water Pollution Prevention Program. The class, consists of a 30 minute presentation.
                     
                     
                     Please contact Erik Tyge (901.678.2044) to schedule environmental compliance training.
                     
                     
                     
                     Fire SAFETY
                     
                     Fire Extinguisher Training
                     
                     This class is intended for all University personnel who may need to use a portable
                        fire extinguisher.  The class, consisting of a 30 minute presentation followed by
                        hands-on experience with a fire extinguisher, also includes information on fire prevention.
                     
                     
                     Please contact Tom Eadie (901.678.4671) to discuss fire safety training.
                     
                     
                     
                     Laboratory Safety
                     
                     Laboratory Health & Safety Seminar Normally presented at the beginning of the fall semester, this course is intended
                        to provide information to employees on how to reduce exposure to chemicals and how
                        to safely work in a laboratory setting.
                     
                     
                     Topics covered include:
                     
                     
                        
                        Employee exposure reduction methods
                        
                        Personal protective equipment
                        
                        The Chemical Hygiene Plan
                        
                        Hazard identification
                        
                        Material Safety Data Sheets
                        
                        Medical consultation and record keeping.
                        
                     
                     
                     Laboratory Ventilation Briefing
                     
                     This 30 to 40 minute briefing provides information on how laboratory ventilation systems
                        function and how to perform work safely in a fume hood.
                     
                     
                     Please contact Alton Simpson (901.678.4672) for laboratory ventilation briefing.
                     
                     
                     
                     Radiation Safety
                     
                     Radiation Worker Course
                     
                     This training is normally required for anyone who uses radioactive materials or radiation
                        producing devices.
                     
                     
                     Topics covered include:
                     
                     
                        
                        Reporting requirements
                        
                        Personnel dosimetry
                        
                        Radioactive waste management
                        
                        Exposure control
                        
                     
                     
                     Radiation Safety Orientation for Non-Users
                     
                     This training course is intended for those personnel who do not use radioactive materials
                        or radiation producing devices but are associated with a laboratory that does use
                        ionizing radiation.
                     
                     
                     Please contact Alton Simpson (901.678.4672) for Radiation Safety Training.
                     
                     
                     
                     Other ON-LINE TRAINING
                     
                     A Day in the Lab (A PI's Perspective) - Video courtesy of University of California, San Diego.
                     
                     
                     Biological Safety Cabinets - Multiple videos courtesy of Nuaire, Inc.
                     
                     
                     Bloodborne Pathogens - Available from EH&S through e-Courseware.  Contact Eric Swauncy (901.678.1625)
                        to enroll.
                     
                     
                     Dow Lab Safety Academy - This site provides multiple lab safety videos, courtesy of Dow Chemical Company
                     
                     
                     Experimenting with Danger - Video courtesy of U.S. Chemical Safety Board, details hazards associated with academic
                        research labs.
                     
                     
                     Fume Hood Tutorial - Learn to use your fume hood properly and understand how the lab ventilation system
                        functions.
                     
                     
                     Laboratory Glassware Safety - Video courtesy of Corning Glass
                     
                     
                     Lab Safety Training - Training courtesy of Lab Safety Workspace, includes several course selections.
                     
                     
                     Mercury Vapor Hazards - The magnitude of mercury vapor emissions from small spills can be easily observed
                        in this video from Bowling Green State University.
                     
                     
                     Pandemic Preparedness - "Workplace Strategies for Pandemic Preparedness" provides background information,
                        strategies for reducing virus transmission, and other practical information.
                     
                     
                     Respirator Safety - Free videos from OSHA that discuss respiratory protection and  demonstrate how
                        to don, doff, and perform user seal checks on respirators.
                     
                     
                     Safety Training from Oklahoma State University - OSU offers a broad range of basic training on-line at no charge.
                     
                     
                     Surgical Masks v. Respirators - Free video from OSHA describing the protective differences between surgical masks
                        and respirators.
                     
                     
                     Hazardous Materials Training from North Carolina State University - NCSU offers a variety of on-line courses.
                     
                     
                     Hazardous Waste Management - Available from EH&S through e-Courseware.  Contact Jennifer Tichenor   (901.678.5700) to enroll.
                     
                     
                     Hazardous Waste and Underground Storage Tanks - Courtesy of U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
                     
                     
                     Fire Extinguisher - For hands-on training, please contact Environmental Health & Safety.
                     
                     
                     Working with Pyrophoric Reagents - Courtesy of University of California, San Diego
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Self-paced CD-ROM Training
                     
                     Biological Safety Cabinets
                     
                     Laser Safety Orientation
                     
                     Please contact EH&S (901.678.5700) to schedule an appointment.
                     
                     
                     
                     Video Library
                     
                     Please contact EH&S (901.678.5700) to check out videos.
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Programs
                        
                           
                              
                              Biological Safety
                              Chemical Safety
                              Chematix Log-in
                              Fire Safety
                              General Safety
                              Hazardous Waste
                              Indoor Air Quality
                              Occupational Health
                              Radiation Safety
                              Training
                              UofM Stormwater Program
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Be Prepared
                              Sign up for safety training.
                           
                           
                              Report an Incident
                              Report an Accident, Near Miss, or Safety Hazard.
                           
                           
                              Know the Plan
                              The Crisis Management Plan has everything you need to know.
                           
                           
                              Business & Finance
                              The Division of Business & Finance at the U of M
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/31/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/ehs/programs/training.php
