http://www.memphis.edu/presweb/leadership/index.php
=======================================================================================














  




   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   


                              
                                                      
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                                                            
                              
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                                          
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 eNews and Signup 
                                 Stay up-to-date with the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Parent and Family Events 
                                 Join us for events held just for you!
                              
                              
                                 FAQs 
                                 Have a question? We have answers!
                              
                              
                                 Connect With Us 
                                 We are here to help you help your student.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Scholarships & Financial Aid 
                                 We can help your student attend the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Student Services 
                                 Resources to help your student succeed.
                              
                              
                                 Campus Card 
                                 Add money to your student's card for books and food.
                              
                              
                                 Give to UofM 
                                 Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place.
                              
                           

                           
                              
                                  
                                 
                              
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)


                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
							     Join Now 
                                 Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association.
                              
                              
                                 Update Your Information 
                                 Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine.
                              
                              
                                 Clubs and Chapters 
                                 Get involved and stay connected to the UofM.
                              
                              
                                 Make a Gift 
                                 Your contribution can make a difference.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 Lambuth Chapter 
                                 Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni.
                              
                              
                                 Upcoming Events 
                                 Mark your calendar for these upcoming events.
                              
                              
                                 Photo Gallery 
                                 View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery.
                              
                              
                                 News 
                                 Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters.
                              
                                                      
                           
                           
                              
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                               
                                  
                                    
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              
"Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day."
READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right)




                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Veterans Resource Center 
                                 Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life.
                              
                              
                                 Veterans Benefits and Certifications 
                                 Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications.
                              
                              
                                 Get Credits Toward your Degree 
                                 Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training.
                              
                              
                                 Online Degree Programs 
                                 Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD.
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   

      
      
         
   
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                           			Office of the President
                           	
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        About
                        Mission and Plan
                        Communications
                        Leadership
                        Contact
                     
                     
                        
                           Leadership Team
                           
                              
                                 
                                 President's Council
                                 Key Administrators
                                 Board of Visitors
                                 UofM Foundation Board of Directors
                                 Alumni Association Board of Directors
                                 President's Staff
                                 Related Offices
                                 Dr. Loretta Rudd
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        Home
                        
                              	Office of the President
                              	
                        
                           	University Leadership Team
                           	
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     		
                     
                     
                     President's Council
                     
                     View Operating Principles of the President's Council
                     
                     Karen Weddle-West Provost Phone: 901.678.2119 Fax: 901.678.3643 E-mail: kweddle@memphis.edu Office: 360 Administration Building Office of the Provost
                     
                     Dr. Karen Weddle-West is the chief academic officer of the University. She has comprehensive
                        responsibility for developing and implementing academic policies and priorities and
                        has responsibility for ensuring that the University's teaching, research, and service
                        missions are successfully implemented. She works closely with the deans and directors
                        of the academic areas to ensure that the University recruits and retains high-quality
                        faculty who offer optimal student experiences.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Tammy Hedges Vice President for External Relations and Executive Director of the UofM Alumni Association Phone: 901.678.2843 Fax: 901.678.3607 E-mail: thedges @memphis.edu Office: 303 Administration Building Alumni Association Communications, Public Relations & Marketing Government Relations Ms. Hedges has responsibility for three departments, including: the Office of Alumni
                        and Constituent Relations, the Office of Communications, Public Relations and Marketing
                        and the Office of Government Relations. Alumni and Constituent Relations maintains
                        the connection between the University and its alumni and friends, fostering lifelong
                        relationships and involvement through the UofM Alumni Association. Communications,
                        Public Relations and Marketing is responsible for expanding the public's general knowledge
                        and understanding of the University, communicating news and publicizing activities
                        taking place at, or under the auspices of, the UofM. The department is also responsible
                        for the UofM's social media engagement, website maintenance, institutional branding
                        and many of the University's major events. Government Relations maintains relationships
                        with city, county, state and federal legislators for the betterment of the University
                        community through public policy formation, education and engagement.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Andy Meyers Vice President for Research Phone: 901.678.2590 Fax: 901.678.4409 E-mail: ameyers@memphis.edu Office: 308 Administration Building Web Andy Meyers is currently Vice President for Research and Executive Director of the
                        UofM Research Foundation. He joined the Department of Psychology here in 1976 and
                        served as Director of the Center for Applied Psychological Research (1985 to 1990)
                        and department chairman (1990 to 2002) before becoming Vice Provost for Research (2003-2013).
                        Dr. Meyers' primary research interests are the assessment, prevention and treatment
                        of problem gambling behavior. He was the winner of the 1995-96 University of Memphis,
                        College of Arts and Sciences Distinguished Research Award and in 2003 was named the
                        college's Meritorious Faculty Award winner. Dr. Meyers has been a Fellow of the American
                        Psychological Association and the Association for Applied Sport Psychology, where
                        he served as President (1998-2001).
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     David Zettergren Vice President for Business and Finance Phone: 901.678.2121 Fax: 901.678.5128 E-mail: dzttrgrn@memphis.edu Office: 367 Administration Building Division of Business and Finance Mr. Zettergren has responsibility for the University's fiscal, human, and plant resources.
                        He ensures that the University's fiscal resources are managed responsibly and appropriately,
                        that the University has a knowledgeable and helpful workforce, and that our faculty,
                        staff and students enjoy facilities that are safe and conducive to learning. He oversees
                        an annual operating budget of more than $300 million and a plant of 202 buildings
                        located on 1170 acres.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Bobby Prince Chief Development Officer Phone: 901.678.3951 Fax: 901.678.1699 E-mail: baprince@memphis.edu Office: 323 Administration Building Development
                     
                     Mr. Prince leads the Development Office, which works to advance the mission of the
                        University and enrich its future by securing philanthropic support for academic initiatives
                        university-wide. This is accomplished by fostering donor-centered relationships with
                        alumni, friends and organizations. The Development Office includes annual giving,
                        major giving, planned giving, corporate and foundation relations, donor relations
                        and advancement services.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Robert Jackson Chief Information Officer Phone: 901.678.8324 Fax: 901.678.5656 E-mail: rjax@memphis.edu Office: 377 Administration Building Information Technology Services
                     
                     Dr. Jackson leads Information Technology Services (ITS) and is responsible for IT
                        strategic planning, policy recommendations, information security and governance. He
                        ensures ITS meets academic and administrative computing needs through oversight of
                        the ITS Service Desk, Network Services, Telecommunications and Data Center Operations,
                        Desktop Support, Enterprise Infrastructure Services, Research Computing and Enterprise
                        Application Services.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Dr. Jasbir Dhaliwal Vice Provost for Academic Affairs, Chief Innovation Officer and Dean of the Graduate
                           School Phone: 901.678.4653 or 901.678.1596 Fax: 901.678.0378 E-mail: jdhaliwl@memphis.edu FedEx Institute of Technology Graduate School
                     
                     As Chief Innovation Officer of the University, Dr. Dhaliwal leads strategic innovation
                        priorities for the President's Office to modernize the university's academic and research
                        culture. This includes serving as the Executive Director of the FedEx Institute of
                        Technology which, as the front door to the university's research capabilities and
                        infrastructure, promotes interdisciplinary research clusters, corporate engagement
                        and technology commercialization. On the academic side, Dr. Dhaliwal has strategic
                        responsibility for all aspects of the university's portfolio of 114 graduate programs
                        that enroll about 4000 graduate students in studies at the doctoral, masters and graduate
                        certificate levels. As Vice Provost for Academic Affairs he supports the Office of
                        the Provost on key priorities to advance the university's academic mission.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Melanie Murry University Counsel Phone: 901.678.2155 Fax: 901.678.3489 E-mail: mmurry@memphis.edu Office: 201 Administration Building Office of Legal Counsel
                     
                     Ms. Murry is responsible for the legal work of the University, which includes a broad
                        array of issues from contracts to employment matters to intellectual property. She
                        is assisted by the employees of the Office of Legal Counsel, which she manages. The
                        mission of the office is to provide timely and competent legal assistance to all areas
                        of the University and to assist the University in accomplishing its mission.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Tom Bowen Athletic Director Phone: 901.678.2335 Fax: 901.678.5078 E-mail: tbowen1@memphis.edu Office: 001 Athletic Office Building UofM Athletics
                     
                     Mr. Bowen has the responsibility for oversight of all intercollegiate sports associated
                        with the University. He has responsibility for all on-campus intercollegiate athletic
                        facilities and works with the Liberty Bowl and FedEx Forum. In addition, he has responsibility
                        for negotiating contracts and fund-raising for the division.
                     
                     
                      
                     
                     Bruce Harber Chief Operations Officer Phone:  901.678.2121 Fax:  901.678.5128 E-mail:  bharber@memphis.edu Office : 367 Administration Building
                     
                     
                     Bruce Harber serves as the University and President's representative to the Board
                        of Trustees, assisting with board governance, compliance, and administrative issues.
                        He coordinates all non-academic effectiveness initiatives, both institutional and
                        operational, and provides analysis and recommendations regarding strategy formulation,
                        project implementation, and proposed methodologies. Bruce also oversees the university's
                        Process Improvement initiatives, the Shared Services Center, and serves as the neighborhood
                        liaison for community outreach and economic development.
                     
                     
                     
                     	
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Leadership Team
                        
                           
                              
                              President's Council
                              Key Administrators
                              Board of Visitors
                              UofM Foundation Board of Directors
                              Alumni Association Board of Directors
                              President's Staff
                              Related Offices
                              Dr. Loretta Rudd
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Dashboard
                              UofM steps towards success
                           
                           
                              FOCUS Act
                              Independent Governing Board Updates
                           
                           
                              President's Blog
                              News, stories, videos and more
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
               
               
            
            
         
         
      
   
   
   
      
      
      

   
      
         
            
               Full sitemap 
            
            
               
                  
                     Admissions
                     
                        
                           Prospective Students
                           Undergraduate
                           Graduate
                           Law School
                           International
                           Parents
                           Scholarship & Financial Aid
                           Tuition & Fee Payment
                           FAQs
                           About UofM
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Academics
                     
                        
                           Provost's Office
                           Libraries
                           Transcripts
                           Undergraduate Catalog
                           Graduate Catalog
                           Academic Calendar
                           Course Schedule
                           Financial Aid
                           Graduation
                           Honors Program
						   eCourseware
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Athletics
                     
                        
                           Gotigersgo.com
                           Ticket Information
                           Intramural Sports
                           Recreation Center
                           Athletic Academic Support
                           Former Tigers
                           Facilities
                           Tiger Scholarship Fund
                           Media
                        
                     
                  
				  
                  
                     Research
                     
                        
                           Sponsored Programs
                           Research Resources
                           Centers & Institutes
                           Chairs of Excellence
                           FedEx Institute of Technology
                           Libraries
                           Grants Accounting
                           Environmental Health
                           Office of Institutional Research
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Support UofM
                     
                        
                           Make a Gift
                           Alumni Association
                           Year of Service
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Administrative Support
                     
                        
                           President's Office
                           Academic Affairs
                           Business & Finance
                           Career Opportunities
                           Conference & Event Services
                           Corporate Partnerships
Development Office
                           Government Relations
                           Information Technology Services
                           Media and Marketing
                           Student Affairs
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Follow UofM Online
                  Facebook Twitter YouTube
                  
                  
                  Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn
               
            
             
                  
                      
                  
               
      
         
      
   


      
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                 
                                 
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright 2016 University of Memphis
Important Notice

                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                    Last Updated: 10/13/16
                                 
                                 
                                 
                                 
University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity.  For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here .


 

                                 
                                 
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   







http://www.memphis.edu/presweb/leadership/index.php
